---
title: Get started with building bots
description: Learn about bot developer experience, bot events, bot activity handler, bot types, and scopes
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.date: 09/20/2024
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Get started with bots

What are bots, anyway?

Bots transform how developers engage with users, streamline tasks, and boost efficiency. As a developer, you'll craft interactive and intelligent solutions to enhance user experiences.

This article guides you through the developer journey, showcasing how a bot interacts with users or systems, and explaining bot concepts. In addition, you'll explore the capabilities you'll integrate into your bot application.

## Bots - the developer experience

Let's see how a basic chatbot works at runtime.

[TBD: A flow diagram that shows how a chatbot interacts with a user followed by explanation.]

## Understand bot basics

Let's learn about some common bot elements and how they work together to make a bot effective within Teams.

* **Activity handler**: This component manages and processes events or activities generated by users interacting with the bot. These activities can include text or image messages, bot events like users joining or leaving, @mentions, user actions such as booking or ordering through the bot, and handling errors.
* **Events**: These are occurrences triggered during a user's interaction with a bot, prompting the bot to respond or take action. Events can be initiated when the user sends a message, selects a button, shares inputs, and more.
* **Conversation**: This is an interactive exchange between a user and a bot, which can include text or voice messaging. A conversation involves user inputs, the bot's responses, the context of the conversation such as history and state, the intent of the conversation (the user's goal or purpose), and dialog that can be a multi-turn exchange.
* Dialog:
* Bot logic:

For more information, see [How Microsoft Teams bots work](/azure/bot-service/bot-builder-basics-teams?view=azure-bot-service-4.0&tabs=csharp&preserve-view=true).

## Explore bot capabilities

You can choose one or more of the following capabilities for your bot app. Use either Bot Framework SDK or Teams Toolkit to build these capabilities in your bot.

* **Notification bot**:
  A notification bot is an automated bot that sends notifications to users in a Teams channel, group chat, or personal chat. You can use notification bots for user scenarios such as, sending reminders or alerts, or sharing news or updates. Users can also interact with interactive notification bots by responding to options or links within the notification or even sharing input or feedback.

For more information, see build notification bot with JavaScript.

* **Workflow bot**:
  You use a workflow bot to automate or streamline business processes. This bot can interact with users, applications, and data to progress tasks and workflows. You can use workflow bots to automate repetitive tasks, assign tasks to team members, track progress, and more. They're used to bring efficiency through automation and reduction of manual effort.

For more information, see build command bot with JavaScript.

* **Conversational bot**:
  A conversational bot is a chat bot that can simulate conversation with users, who can use it to interact with a web service. The conversation is made possible through text, interactive cards, and dialogs. This bot can understand user inputs and respond accordingly. You can use it to help users with virtual assistance, customer service, and more.

For more information, see create Teams conversation bot.

* **AI bot**:
  An AI bot uses artificial intelligence to perform the tasks it is automated to do. It understands natural language and can engage in conversation and answer questions. You can use it for virtual assistance, language translation, predictive analysis, and more.

For more information, see build a custom copilot to chat with your data using Teams AI library and Teams Toolkit.

## Next step

## See also
