msteams-platform/build-your-first-app/add-messaging-extension.md, before:

---
title: Add a messaging extension to your first Teams app
author: heath-hamilton
description: Learn how to build a messaging extension in your first Microsoft Teams app.
---
# Create a messaging extension for your first Teams app

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/overview-messaging.png" alt-text="Alt text describes the content of the image.":::

## What you'll learn

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

## Build a search-based messaging extension

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

### Update the app manifest

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

### Understanding the scaffolding

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Build a bot for your app](../build-your-first-app/add-bot.md)

## Learn more

Links to related advanced capabilities and features.

Commit message:

Updated 'Build your first app' and overview pages.

msteams-platform/build-your-first-app/add-messaging-extension.md, after:

---
title: Add a messaging extension to your first Teams app
author: heath-hamilton
description: Learn how to build a messaging extension in your first Microsoft Teams app.
---
# Create a messaging extension for your first Teams app

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/overview-messaging.png" alt-text="Alt text describes the content of the image.":::

## What you'll learn

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

## Before you begin

You need a running "Hello, World!" Teams app to get started. If you don't have one, see [build and run your first app](../build-your-first-app/build-and-run.md).

## Build a search-based messaging extension

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

### Update the app manifest

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

### Understanding the app scaffolding

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit, sed do eiusmod tempor incididunt ut labore et dolore magna aliqua. Ut enim ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exercitation ullamco laboris nisi.

### See the finished product

Upload and view your app in Teams.

## Keep going

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Build a bot for your app](../build-your-first-app/add-bot.md)

## Learn more

Links to related advanced capabilities and features.
