msteams-platform/tabs/design/tabs-mobile.md, before:

---
title: Tabs on mobile
description: Describes the guidelines for designing tabs that work on mobile.
ms.topic: conceptual
localization_priority: Normal
keywords: teams design guidelines reference framework personal apps mobile tabs
---
# Tabs on mobile

You can include tabs in Teams mobile channels, chats, and personal apps.

## Accessing personal tabs

You can access personal tabs in the app drawer.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-app-drawer.png" alt-text="Illustration showing the Teams mobile app drawer." border="false":::

## Accessing channel tabs

You can access channel and group tabs by selecting the **More** button in the channel or chat in which they've been added.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile tab." border="false":::

## Design considerations

Our mobile platform allows apps to be an immersive experience with the app content taking up all of the screen apart from main Teams navigation. To create an immersive experience that fits with Teams, follow these guidelines.

### Responsive design

Because your tab can be opened on devices with a wide range of screen sizes, it needs to follow [responsive design](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_responsive.asp) principles. All of the key constructs should be accessible on mobile devices, and the views should not be distorted. Ensure that when your tab is loaded on a mobile device, all buttons and links are easily accessible using finger-based navigation.

### Layouts

Choosing the correct layout for your tab is important. You should consider the kind of information you're presenting, and choose a layout that organizes it for easy consumption. Some potential options are outlined below.

#### Single canvas

This is one large area where work gets done. The Teams Wiki app follows this pattern. If you have an app that doesn’t separate content into smaller components this would be a good fit.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-single-canvas.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile single canvas tab." border="false":::

#### List

Lists are great for sorting and filtering large quantities of data and are great at keeping the most important things at the top. It is helpful to use sortable columns. Actions can be added to each list item under the ellipsis menu.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-list.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile list tab." border="false":::

#### Grid

Grids are useful for showing elements which are highly visual. It helps to include a filter or search control at the top.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-grid.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile tab with a grid layout." border="false":::

### Tabs with bots on mobile

The following example is a personal app that has tabs and a bot.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-with-bot.png" alt-text="Illustration showing how mobile Teams app that has tabs and a bot." border="false":::

## UI components

### Color palettes

Using our approved neutral palette for backgrounds, notifications, text, and buttons will help your app feel more at home in Teams. Since Teams mobile has two colour themes (light and dark), it’s a good idea to make sure your app looks great in both.

#### Light color

![light color palette](../../assets/images/light-color.png)

#### Dark color

![dark color palette](../../assets/images/dark-color.png)

### Buttons and controls

The way buttons are styled helps communicate what kind of action they trigger. We maintain a wide range of buttons that are formatted to show different levels of emphasis. Buttons can have text, an icon, or a combination of text and an icon. To communicate different levels in a hierarchy, we designed primary and secondary buttons within each category.

#### Buttons

Primary and secondary buttons.

![buttons image](../../assets/images/buttons.png)

#### Selection controls

Radio buttons, checkboxes, and toggles.

![selection controls](../../assets/images/selection-controls.png)

#### Chiclets and pills

![chiclets and pills](../../assets/images/chiclets-and-pills.png)

### Typography

Typography should be clear and purposeful. Emphasize important information and avoid using multiple fonts and sizes to reduce confusion. We recommend using sentence case and avoiding the usage of all caps for localization and legibility.

![mobile typograph](../../assets/images/mobile-typography.png)

### Fields and flyouts

Fields are areas where users can input text. Flyouts are more lightweight than dialogs and appear from the top pane.

#### List controls

![mobile list controls](../../assets/images/mobile-list-controls.png)

#### Field controls

![mobile field controls](../../assets/images/mobile-field-controls.png)

## Developer considerations

When you're building an app that includes a tab, you need to consider (and test) how your tab will function on both the Android and iOS Microsoft Teams clients. The sections below outline some of the key scenarios you need to consider.

### Authentication

For authentication to work on mobile clients, you must upgrade you Teams JavaScript SDK to at least version 1.4.1.

### Low bandwidth and intermittent connections

Mobile clients regularly need to function with low bandwidth and intermittent connections. Your app should handle any timeouts appropriately by providing a contextual message to the user. You should also user progress indicators to provide feedback to your users for any long-running processes.

> [!NOTE]
> Tabs are enabled on mobile only after the application is added to an allow list, based on the input of the approval team. 
> To check mobile responsiveness, reach out to teamsubm@microsoft.com.

### Testing on mobile clients

You need to validate that your tab functions properly on mobile devices of various sizes and qualities. For Android devices, you can use the [DevTools](~/tabs/how-to/developer-tools.md) to debug your tab while it is running. We recommend that you test on both high and low performing devices, as well as on a tablet.

### Distribution

Apps listed on the Teams store must be approved for mobile use to function properly in the Teams mobile client. How tabs behave depends on whether your app is approved.

#### Channel and group tab behavior

* **Behavior when approved**: Opens in the Teams mobile client using your app's `contentUrl` configuration.
* **Behavior when not approved**: Opens in the device’s default browser using your app's `websiteUrl` configuration (which also must be included in your source code's `setSettings()` function). However, users can still load the tab in the Teams mobile client by selecting **More** next to the app and choosing **Open**, which triggers your app’s `contentUrl` configuration.

#### Personal app behavior

* **Behavior when approved**: Each tab in the personal app displays in the Teams mobile client using their respective `contentUrl` configuration.
* **Behavior when not approved**: The personal app is unavailable in the Teams mobile client.

#### Non-Teams store app behavior

If you're sideloading your app or publishing to an org's app catalog, tab behavior will be the same as Teams store apps approved by Microsoft for mobile.

Commit message:

Distro updates, including new table.

msteams-platform/tabs/design/tabs-mobile.md, after:

---
title: Tabs on mobile
description: Describes the guidelines for designing tabs that work on mobile.
ms.topic: conceptual
localization_priority: Normal
keywords: teams design guidelines reference framework personal apps mobile tabs
---
# Tabs on mobile

You can include tabs in Teams mobile channels, chats, and personal apps.

## Accessing personal tabs

You can access personal tabs in the app drawer.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-app-drawer.png" alt-text="Illustration showing the Teams mobile app drawer." border="false":::

## Accessing channel tabs

You can access channel and group tabs by selecting the **More** button in the channel or chat in which they've been added.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile tab." border="false":::

## Design considerations

Our mobile platform allows apps to be an immersive experience with the app content taking up all of the screen apart from main Teams navigation. To create an immersive experience that fits with Teams, follow these guidelines.

### Responsive design

Because your tab can be opened on devices with a wide range of screen sizes, it needs to follow [responsive design](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_responsive.asp) principles. All of the key constructs should be accessible on mobile devices, and the views should not be distorted. Ensure that when your tab is loaded on a mobile device, all buttons and links are easily accessible using finger-based navigation.

### Layouts

Choosing the correct layout for your tab is important. You should consider the kind of information you're presenting, and choose a layout that organizes it for easy consumption. Some potential options are outlined below.

#### Single canvas

This is one large area where work gets done. The Teams Wiki app follows this pattern. If you have an app that doesn’t separate content into smaller components this would be a good fit.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-single-canvas.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile single canvas tab." border="false":::

#### List

Lists are great for sorting and filtering large quantities of data and are great at keeping the most important things at the top. It is helpful to use sortable columns. Actions can be added to each list item under the ellipsis menu.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-list.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile list tab." border="false":::

#### Grid

Grids are useful for showing elements which are highly visual. It helps to include a filter or search control at the top.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-grid.png" alt-text="Illustration showing a Teams mobile tab with a grid layout." border="false":::

### Tabs with bots on mobile

The following example is a personal app that has tabs and a bot.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/mobile-tab-with-bot.png" alt-text="Illustration showing how mobile Teams app that has tabs and a bot." border="false":::

## UI components

### Color palettes

Using our approved neutral palette for backgrounds, notifications, text, and buttons will help your app feel more at home in Teams. Since Teams mobile has two colour themes (light and dark), it’s a good idea to make sure your app looks great in both.

#### Light color

![light color palette](../../assets/images/light-color.png)

#### Dark color

![dark color palette](../../assets/images/dark-color.png)

### Buttons and controls

The way buttons are styled helps communicate what kind of action they trigger. We maintain a wide range of buttons that are formatted to show different levels of emphasis. Buttons can have text, an icon, or a combination of text and an icon. To communicate different levels in a hierarchy, we designed primary and secondary buttons within each category.

#### Buttons

Primary and secondary buttons.

![buttons image](../../assets/images/buttons.png)

#### Selection controls

Radio buttons, checkboxes, and toggles.

![selection controls](../../assets/images/selection-controls.png)

#### Chiclets and pills

![chiclets and pills](../../assets/images/chiclets-and-pills.png)

### Typography

Typography should be clear and purposeful. Emphasize important information and avoid using multiple fonts and sizes to reduce confusion. We recommend using sentence case and avoiding the usage of all caps for localization and legibility.

![mobile typograph](../../assets/images/mobile-typography.png)

### Fields and flyouts

Fields are areas where users can input text. Flyouts are more lightweight than dialogs and appear from the top pane.

#### List controls

![mobile list controls](../../assets/images/mobile-list-controls.png)

#### Field controls

![mobile field controls](../../assets/images/mobile-field-controls.png)

## Developer considerations

When you're building an app that includes a tab, you need to consider (and test) how your tab will function on both the Android and iOS Microsoft Teams clients. The sections below outline some of the key scenarios you need to consider.

### Authentication

For authentication to work on mobile clients, you must upgrade you Teams JavaScript SDK to at least version 1.4.1.

### Low bandwidth and intermittent connections

Mobile clients regularly need to function with low bandwidth and intermittent connections. Your app should handle any timeouts appropriately by providing a contextual message to the user. You should also user progress indicators to provide feedback to your users for any long-running processes.

> [!NOTE]
> Tabs are enabled on mobile only after the application is added to an allow list, based on the input of the approval team. 
> To check mobile responsiveness, reach out to teamsubm@microsoft.com.

### Testing on mobile clients

You need to validate that your tab functions properly on mobile devices of various sizes and qualities. For Android devices, you can use the [DevTools](~/tabs/how-to/developer-tools.md) to debug your tab while it is running. We recommend that you test on both high- and low-performance devices, including a tablet.

### Distribution

Apps listed on the Teams store must be approved for mobile use to function properly in the Teams mobile client. Tab availability and behavior depends on whether your app is approved.

#### Apps on Teams store approved for mobile

The following table describes tab availability and behavior when the app is listed on the Teams store and approved for mobile use.

|Capability   |Mobile availability?   |Mobile behavior|
|----------|-----------|------------|
|Channel <br /> and group tab|Yes|Tab opens in the Teams mobile client using your app's `contentUrl` configuration.|
|Personal app|Yes|Each tab in the personal app tab opens in the Teams mobile client using its respective `contentUrl` configuration.|

#### Apps on Teams store not approved for mobile

The following table describes tab availability and behavior when the app is listed on the Teams store but not approved for mobile use.

|Capability   |Mobile availability?|Mobile behavior|
|----------|-----------|------------|
|Channel and group tab|Yes|Tab opens in the device's default browser instead of the Teams mobile client using your app's `websiteUrl` configuration (which also must be included in your source code's `setSettings()` [function](https://docs.microsoft.com/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/settings?view=msteams-client-js-latest#functions)). However, users can still view the tab in the Teams mobile client by selecting **More** next to the app and choosing **Open**, which triggers your app’s `contentUrl` configuration.|
|Personal app|No|Not applicable|

#### Apps not on Teams store

If you're sideloading your app or publishing to an org's app catalog, tab behavior will be the same as Teams store apps approved by Microsoft for mobile.
