msteams-platform/bots/how-to/get-teams-context.md, before:

---
title: Get Team's specific context for your bot
author: laujan
description: How to get Microsoft Team's specific context for your bot, including the conversation roster, details, and channel list.
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: lajanuar
---
# Get Team's specific context for your bot

[!INCLUDE [pre-release-label](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-bots.md)]

A bot can access additional context data about a team or chat it is installed in. This information can be used to enrich the bot's functionality and provide a more personalized experience.

## Fetching the roster or user profile

Your bot can query for the list of members and their basic profiles, including Teams user IDs and Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) information such as name and objectId. You can use this information to correlate user identities, e.g., to check whether a user, logged into a tab through Azure AD credentials, is a member of the team. The sample code below uses the paged endpoint for retrieving the roster. Although you may still use the non-paged version, it will be unreliable in large teams and should not be used. See [this article](~/resources/team-chat-member-api-changes.md) for additional information.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        var members = new List<TeamsChannelAccount>();
        string continuationToken = null;

        do
        {
            var currentPage = await TeamsInfo.GetPagedMembersAsync(turnContext, 100, continuationToken, cancellationToken);
            continuationToken = currentPage.ContinuationToken;
            members.AddRange(currentPage.Members);
         }
         while (continuationToken != null);
     }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            var continuationToken;
            var members = [];

            do {
                var pagedMembers = await TeamsInfo.getPagedMembers(context, 100, continuationToken);
                continuationToken = pagedMembers.continuationToken;
                members.push(...pagedMembers.members);
            }
            while(continuationToken !== undefined)

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_members(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    members = await TeamsInfo.get_team_members(turn_context)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/conversations/{conversationId}/pagedmembers?pageSize={pageSize}&continuationToken={continuationToken}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`. The response payload will also indicate if the user is a regular or anonymous user.

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:meeting_N2QzYTA3YmItYmMwOC00OTJmLThkYzMtZWMzZGU0NGIyZGI0@thread.v2/pagedmembers?pageSize=100&continuationToken=asdfasdfalkdsjfalksjdf

Response body
{
   "continuationToken":"asdfqwerueiqpiewr",
   "members":[
      {
         "id":"29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
         "name":"Anon1 (Guest)",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"anonymous"
      },
      {
         "id":"29:1bSnHZ7Js2STWrgk6ScEErLk1Lp2zQuD5H2qQ960rtvstKp8tKLl-3r8b6DoW0QxZimuTxk_kupZ1DBMpvIQQUAZL-PNj0EORDvRZXy8kvWk",
         "objectId":"76b0b09f-d410-48fd-993e-84da521a597b",
         "givenName":"John",
         "surname":"Patterson",
         "email":"johnp@fabrikam.com",
         "userPrincipalName":"johnp@fabrikam.com",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"user"
      },
      {
         "id":"29:1URzNQM1x1PNMr1D7L5_lFe6qF6gEfAbkdG8_BUxOW2mTKryQqEZtBTqDt10-MghkzjYDuUj4KG6nvg5lFAyjOLiGJ4jzhb99WrnI7XKriCs",
         "objectId":"6b7b3b2a-2c4b-4175-8582-41c9e685c1b5",
         "givenName":"Rick",
         "surname":"Stevens",
         "email":"Rick.Stevens@fabrikam.com",
         "userPrincipalName":"rstevens@fabrikam.com",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"user"
      }
   ]
}
```

* * *

## Get single member details

You can also retrieve the details of a particular user using their Teams user Id, UPN, or AAD Object Id.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        var member = await TeamsInfo.GetMemberAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.From.Id, cancellationToken);
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        const member = await TeamsInfo.getMember(context, encodeURI('someone@somecompany.com'));

        // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
        await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_members(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    member = TeamsInfo.get_member(turn_context, turn_context.activity.from_property.id)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/conversations/{conversationId}/members/{userId}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`. This can be used for regualr users and anonymous users.

Below is a response sample for regular user

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net/members/29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "objectId": "9d3e08f9-a7ae-43aa-a4d3-de3f319a8a9c",
    "givenName": "Larry",
    "surname": "Brown",
    "email": "Larry.Brown@fabrikam.com",
    "userPrincipalName": "labrown@fabrikam.com",
    "tenantId":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47", 
    "userRole":"user"
}
```

Below is response for anonymous user

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net/members/<anonymous user id>"

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "name": "Anon1 (Guest)",
    "tenantId":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47", 
    "userRole":"anonymous"
}
```

* * *

## Get team's details

When installed in a team, your bot can query for metadata about that team including the Azure AD groupId.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        TeamDetails teamDetails = await TeamsInfo.GetTeamDetailsAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.TeamsGetTeamInfo().Id, cancellationToken);
        if (teamDetails != null) {
            await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"The groupId is: {teamDetails.AadGroupId}");
        }
        else {
            await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"Message did not come from a channel in a team.");
        }
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            const teamDetails = await TeamsInfo.getTeamDetails(turnContext);
            if (teamDetails) {
                await turnContext.sendActivity(`The group ID is: ${teamDetails.aadGroupId}`);
            } else {
                await turnContext.sendActivity('This message did not come from a channel in a team.');
            }

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_details(self, turn_context: TurnContext):
    team_details = await TeamsInfo.get_team_details(turn_context)
    reply = MessageFactory.text(f"The team name is {team_details.name}. The team ID is {team_details.id}. The AADGroupID is {team_details.aad_group_id}.")
    await turn_context.send_activity(reply)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/teams/{teamId}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`.

```http
GET /v3/teams/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "name": "The Team Name",
    "aadGroupId": "02ce3874-dd86-41ba-bddc-013f34019978"
}
```

* * *

## Get the list of channels in a team

Your bot can query the list of channels in a team.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* The name of the default General channel is returned as `null` to allow for localization.
>* The channel ID for the General channel always matches the team ID.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        IEnumerable<ChannelInfo> channels = await TeamsInfo.GetTeamChannelsAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.TeamsGetTeamInfo().Id, cancellationToken);

        await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"The channel count is: {channels.Count()}");
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            const channels = await TeamsInfo.getTeamChannels(turnContext);

            await turnContext.sendActivity(`The channel count is: ${channels.length}`);

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_channels(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    channels = await TeamsInfo.get_team_channels(turn_context)
    reply = MessageFactory.text(f"Total of {len(channels)} channels are currently in team")
    await turn_context.send_activity(reply)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/teams/{teamId}/conversations`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`.

```http
GET /v3/teams/19%3A033451497ea84fcc83d17ed7fb08a1b6%40thread.skype/conversations

Response body
{
    "conversations": [{
        "id": "19:033451497ea84fcc83d17ed7fb08a1b6@thread.skype",
        "name": null
    }, {
        "id": "19:cc25e4aae50746ecbb11473bba24c70a@thread.skype",
        "name": "Materials"
    }, {
        "id": "19:b7b84cba410c406ba671dbbf5e0a3519@thread.skype",
        "name": "Design"
    }, {
        "id": "19:fc5db2aed489454e8f8c06829ed6c986@thread.skype",
        "name": "Marketing"
    }]
}
```

* * *

[!INCLUDE [sample](~/includes/bots/teams-bot-samples.md)]

Commit message:

content update
Updated the page size for get conversation members

msteams-platform/bots/how-to/get-teams-context.md, after:

---
title: Get Team's specific context for your bot
author: laujan
description: How to get Microsoft Team's specific context for your bot, including the conversation roster, details, and channel list.
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: lajanuar
---
# Get Team's specific context for your bot

[!INCLUDE [pre-release-label](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-bots.md)]

A bot can access additional context data about a team or chat it is installed in. This information can be used to enrich the bot's functionality and provide a more personalized experience.

## Fetching the roster or user profile

Your bot can query for the list of members and their basic profiles, including Teams user IDs and Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) information such as name and objectId. You can use this information to correlate user identities, e.g., to check whether a user, logged into a tab through Azure AD credentials, is a member of the team. The sample code below uses the paged endpoint for retrieving the roster. For get conversation members, minimum or maximum page size depends on the implementation. Page size less than 50, are treated as 50, and page size greater than 500, are capped at 500. Although you may still use the non-paged version, it will be unreliable in large teams and should not be used. See [this article](~/resources/team-chat-member-api-changes.md) for additional information.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        var members = new List<TeamsChannelAccount>();
        string continuationToken = null;

        do
        {
            var currentPage = await TeamsInfo.GetPagedMembersAsync(turnContext, 100, continuationToken, cancellationToken);
            continuationToken = currentPage.ContinuationToken;
            members.AddRange(currentPage.Members);
         }
         while (continuationToken != null);
     }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            var continuationToken;
            var members = [];

            do {
                var pagedMembers = await TeamsInfo.getPagedMembers(context, 100, continuationToken);
                continuationToken = pagedMembers.continuationToken;
                members.push(...pagedMembers.members);
            }
            while(continuationToken !== undefined)

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_members(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    members = await TeamsInfo.get_team_members(turn_context)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/conversations/{conversationId}/pagedmembers?pageSize={pageSize}&continuationToken={continuationToken}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`. The response payload will also indicate if the user is a regular or anonymous user.

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:meeting_N2QzYTA3YmItYmMwOC00OTJmLThkYzMtZWMzZGU0NGIyZGI0@thread.v2/pagedmembers?pageSize=100&continuationToken=asdfasdfalkdsjfalksjdf

Response body
{
   "continuationToken":"asdfqwerueiqpiewr",
   "members":[
      {
         "id":"29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
         "name":"Anon1 (Guest)",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"anonymous"
      },
      {
         "id":"29:1bSnHZ7Js2STWrgk6ScEErLk1Lp2zQuD5H2qQ960rtvstKp8tKLl-3r8b6DoW0QxZimuTxk_kupZ1DBMpvIQQUAZL-PNj0EORDvRZXy8kvWk",
         "objectId":"76b0b09f-d410-48fd-993e-84da521a597b",
         "givenName":"John",
         "surname":"Patterson",
         "email":"johnp@fabrikam.com",
         "userPrincipalName":"johnp@fabrikam.com",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"user"
      },
      {
         "id":"29:1URzNQM1x1PNMr1D7L5_lFe6qF6gEfAbkdG8_BUxOW2mTKryQqEZtBTqDt10-MghkzjYDuUj4KG6nvg5lFAyjOLiGJ4jzhb99WrnI7XKriCs",
         "objectId":"6b7b3b2a-2c4b-4175-8582-41c9e685c1b5",
         "givenName":"Rick",
         "surname":"Stevens",
         "email":"Rick.Stevens@fabrikam.com",
         "userPrincipalName":"rstevens@fabrikam.com",
         "tenantId":"29:1UX7p8Fkx7p93MZlBFS71swTB9juQOCfnXf2L3wxOUITCcIGpFcRX-JiFjLDVZhxGpEfzSTGNsZeEyTKr1iu3Vw",
         "userRole":"user"
      }
   ]
}
```

* * *

## Get single member details

You can also retrieve the details of a particular user using their Teams user Id, UPN, or AAD Object Id.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        var member = await TeamsInfo.GetMemberAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.From.Id, cancellationToken);
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        const member = await TeamsInfo.getMember(context, encodeURI('someone@somecompany.com'));

        // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
        await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_members(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    member = TeamsInfo.get_member(turn_context, turn_context.activity.from_property.id)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/conversations/{conversationId}/members/{userId}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`. This can be used for regualr users and anonymous users.

Below is a response sample for regular user

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net/members/29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "objectId": "9d3e08f9-a7ae-43aa-a4d3-de3f319a8a9c",
    "givenName": "Larry",
    "surname": "Brown",
    "email": "Larry.Brown@fabrikam.com",
    "userPrincipalName": "labrown@fabrikam.com",
    "tenantId":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47", 
    "userRole":"user"
}
```

Below is response for anonymous user

```http
GET /v3/conversations/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net/members/<anonymous user id>"

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "name": "Anon1 (Guest)",
    "tenantId":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47", 
    "userRole":"anonymous"
}
```

* * *

## Get team's details

When installed in a team, your bot can query for metadata about that team including the Azure AD groupId.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        TeamDetails teamDetails = await TeamsInfo.GetTeamDetailsAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.TeamsGetTeamInfo().Id, cancellationToken);
        if (teamDetails != null) {
            await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"The groupId is: {teamDetails.AadGroupId}");
        }
        else {
            await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"Message did not come from a channel in a team.");
        }
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            const teamDetails = await TeamsInfo.getTeamDetails(turnContext);
            if (teamDetails) {
                await turnContext.sendActivity(`The group ID is: ${teamDetails.aadGroupId}`);
            } else {
                await turnContext.sendActivity('This message did not come from a channel in a team.');
            }

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_details(self, turn_context: TurnContext):
    team_details = await TeamsInfo.get_team_details(turn_context)
    reply = MessageFactory.text(f"The team name is {team_details.name}. The team ID is {team_details.id}. The AADGroupID is {team_details.aad_group_id}.")
    await turn_context.send_activity(reply)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/teams/{teamId}`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`.

```http
GET /v3/teams/19:ja0cu120i1jod12j@skype.net

Response body
{
    "id": "29:1GcS4EyB_oSI8A88XmWBN7NJFyMqe3QGnJdgLfFGkJnVelzRGos0bPbpsfJjcbAD22bmKc4GMbrY2g4JDrrA8vM06X1-cHHle4zOE6U4ttcc",
    "name": "The Team Name",
    "aadGroupId": "02ce3874-dd86-41ba-bddc-013f34019978"
}
```

* * *

## Get the list of channels in a team

Your bot can query the list of channels in a team.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* The name of the default General channel is returned as `null` to allow for localization.
>* The channel ID for the General channel always matches the team ID.

# [C#/.NET](#tab/dotnet)

```csharp
public class MyBot : TeamsActivityHandler
{
    protected override async Task OnMessageActivityAsync(ITurnContext<IMessageActivity> turnContext, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        IEnumerable<ChannelInfo> channels = await TeamsInfo.GetTeamChannelsAsync(turnContext, turnContext.Activity.TeamsGetTeamInfo().Id, cancellationToken);

        await turnContext.SendActivityAsync($"The channel count is: {channels.Count()}");
    }
}
```

# [TypeScript/Node.js](#tab/typescript)

```typescript
export class MyBot extends TeamsActivityHandler {
    constructor() {
        super();

        // See https://aka.ms/about-bot-activity-message to learn more about the message and other activity types.
        this.onMessage(async (turnContext, next) => {
            const channels = await TeamsInfo.getTeamChannels(turnContext);

            await turnContext.sendActivity(`The channel count is: ${channels.length}`);

            // By calling next() you ensure that the next BotHandler is run.
            await next();
        });
    }
}
```

# [Python](#tab/python)

```python
async def _show_channels(
    self, turn_context: TurnContext
):
    channels = await TeamsInfo.get_team_channels(turn_context)
    reply = MessageFactory.text(f"Total of {len(channels)} channels are currently in team")
    await turn_context.send_activity(reply)
```

# [JSON](#tab/json)

You can directly issue a GET request on `/v3/teams/{teamId}/conversations`, using the value of `serviceUrl` as the endpoint. The value of `serviceUrl` tends to be stable but can change. When a new message arrives, your bot should verify its stored value for `serviceUrl`.

```http
GET /v3/teams/19%3A033451497ea84fcc83d17ed7fb08a1b6%40thread.skype/conversations

Response body
{
    "conversations": [{
        "id": "19:033451497ea84fcc83d17ed7fb08a1b6@thread.skype",
        "name": null
    }, {
        "id": "19:cc25e4aae50746ecbb11473bba24c70a@thread.skype",
        "name": "Materials"
    }, {
        "id": "19:b7b84cba410c406ba671dbbf5e0a3519@thread.skype",
        "name": "Design"
    }, {
        "id": "19:fc5db2aed489454e8f8c06829ed6c986@thread.skype",
        "name": "Marketing"
    }]
}
```

* * *

[!INCLUDE [sample](~/includes/bots/teams-bot-samples.md)]
