msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/post-publish/app-growth/build-app.md, before:

---
title: The build stage for your collaborative app
author: heath-hamilton
description: Learn what you can do during the build stage of your app to grow your app
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Build your collaborative app

Let’s briefly go over what initiatives are the most impactful during the build stage.

## What should you as a developer do during the Build stage?

- Alignment on business drivers, success metrics and path to liquidity for your collaborative app.
- Commitment to build a high-quality and sticky collaborative app on Teams and monetize the app via transactable SaaS subscriptions on the marketplace.
- Understanding of and adherence to [platform fundamentals](../../../../app-fundamentals-overview.md) and [Teams app design principles](../../../../design/design-teams-app-overview.md).
- Executive commit for multi-quarter app roadmap and GTM investments.
- Identification of pilot customers and getting their agreement to provide feedback on the app and adopt once published.

## Where can Microsoft help?

- Access to proven best practices to build a differentiated, collaborative Teams app.
- In-depth developer documentation with elaborate platform features to build a high quality app.
- White gloved support through PM, development and design experts from Teams Engineering for strategic developers through the invite-only build-with partner program.
- Support for customer inclusive app design and development for strategic developers through the invite-only build-with partner program.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Launching your collaborative app](launch-app.md)

Commit message:

grow your app image icons
Added icons for grow your app and added see also links.

msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/post-publish/app-growth/build-app.md, after:

---
title: The build stage for your collaborative app
author: heath-hamilton
description: Learn what you can do during the build stage of your app to grow your app.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Build your collaborative app

Let’s briefly go over what initiatives are the most impactful during the build stage.

## What should you as a developer do during the Build stage?

- Alignment on business drivers, success metrics and path to liquidity for your collaborative app.
- Commitment to build a high-quality and sticky collaborative app on Teams and monetize the app via transactable SaaS subscriptions on the marketplace.
- Understanding of and adherence to [platform fundamentals](../../../../app-fundamentals-overview.md) and [Teams app design principles](../../../../design/design-teams-app-overview.md).
- Executive commit for multi-quarter app roadmap and GTM investments.
- Identification of pilot customers and getting their agreement to provide feedback on the app and adopt once published.

## Where can Microsoft help?

- Access to proven best practices to build a differentiated, collaborative Teams app.
- In-depth developer documentation with elaborate platform features to build a high quality app.
- White gloved support through PM, development and design experts from Teams Engineering for strategic developers through the invite-only build-with partner program.
- Support for customer inclusive app design and development for strategic developers through the invite-only build-with partner program.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Launching your collaborative app](launch-app.md)

## See also

[Strategize and execute growth for your app](overview-app-growth.md)
