msteams-platform/concepts/build-and-test/deep-link-application.md, before:

---
title: Deep link to an application 
author: v-npaladugu
description: Learn how to create deep links to an application and navigate using them in your Microsoft Teams apps and tabs.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Deep link to an application

Application can open the profile dialog through deep links and help users to learn more about the application, permissions, and more. You can create a deep link for the app after the app is listed in the Teams store. To create a link to launch Teams, append the app ID to the URL, `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>`. A dialog appears to install or open the app.

If your app is approved for mobile platform, you can deep link to an app on mobile. Apple App Store Connect Team ID is required additionally for the deep link to work on Teams-iOS. For more information, see [how to update Apple App Store Connect Team ID](../deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/update-apple-store-team-connect-id.md).

Deep link to an app isn't supported for custom apps.

[!INCLUDE [sdk-include](~/includes/sdk-include.md)]

## Open the application profile dialog

You can open an app install dialog from your Teams app and also can install the app in other contexts. Use the following deep link format to open an app install dialog from your Teams:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>`, where `<appId>` is the application ID.

Applications can use the TeamsJS library to open the dialog without manually generating the deep link. Following is an example to open the app install dialog using TeamsJS:

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

```javascript
// Open an app install dialog from your tab
if(appInstallDialog.isSupported()) {
    const dialogPromise = appInstallDialog.openAppInstallDialog({ appId: "<appId>" });
    dialogPromise.
      then((result) => {/*Successful operation*/}).
      catch((error) => {/*Unsuccessful operation*/});
}
else { /* handle case where capability isn't supported */ }
```

For more information about the install dialog, see the [appInstallDialog.openAppInstallDialog()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/appinstalldialog?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-appinstalldialog-openappinstalldialog&preserve-view=true) function in the API reference documentation.

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

```javascript
// Open an app install dialog from your tab
microsoftTeams.executeDeepLink("https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>");
```

---

## Navigate within your app

It's possible to navigate within an app using TeamsJS. The following code demonstrates how to navigate to a specific entity within your Teams app.

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

You can trigger navigation from your tab using the [pages.navigateToApp()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-navigatetoapp&preserve-view=true) function as shown in the following code:

```javascript
if (pages.isSupported()) {
  const navPromise = pages.navigateToApp({ appId: <appId>, pageId: <pageId>, webUrl: <webUrl>, subPageId: <subPageId>, channelId:<channelId>});
  navPromise.
     then((result) => {/*Successful navigation*/}).
     catch((error) => {/*Failed navigation*/});
}
else { /* handle case where capability isn't supported */ }
```

For more information about navigation within a tab app, see [navigate within a tab app](../../tabs/how-to/tab-navigation.md). For more information about using the pages capability, see [pages.navigateToApp()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-navigatetoapp&preserve-view=true) and the [pages](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true) namespace for other navigation options. If needed directly open a deep link using the [app.openLink()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/app?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-app-openlink&preserve-view=true) function.

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

To trigger a deep link from your tab, call:

```javascript
microsoftTeams.executeDeepLink(/*deepLink*/);
```

---

The navigation behavior of a Teams app extended across Microsoft 365 Office is dependent on two factors:

1. The target that the deep link points to.
1. The host where the Teams app is running.

If the Teams app is running within the host where the deep link is targeted, your app will open directly within the host. However, if the Teams app is running in a different host from where the deep link is targeted, the app will first open in the browser.

## Navigate to a chat with the application

You can navigate a user to a personal chat with the application by preparing the link manually using the following format:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/conversations`, where `appId` is your application ID and following lists `appId` for different apps:

* Side loaded apps: Manifest ID
* Apps submitted to org catalog: Org catalog ID
* Apps submitted to Teams app store: Store ID

## Navigate to a tab

You can create deep links to entities in Teams apps. This method is used to create links that navigate to content and information within your tab. For example, if your tab contains a task list, team members can create and share links to individual tasks. When you select the link, it navigates to your tab that focuses on the specific item.

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

To implement, add a **copy link** action to each item, in whatever way best suits your UI. When the user takes this action, call [`pages.shareDeepLink()`](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-sharedeeplink&preserve-view=true) to display a dialog containing a link that the user can copy to the clipboard. When you make this call, pass an ID for your item. You get it back in [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) when the link is followed and your tab is reloaded.

```javascript
pages.shareDeepLink({ subPageId: <subPageId>, subPageLabel: <subPageLabel>, subPageWebUrl: <subPageWebUrl> })
```

You'll need to replace the fields with the appropriate information:

* `subPageId`: A unique identifier for the item within your page to which you're deep linking.
* `subPageLabel`: A label for the item to use for displaying the deep link.
* `subPageWebUrl`: A fallback URL to use if the client can't render the page.

For more information, see [pages.shareDeepLink()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-sharedeeplink&preserve-view=true).

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

To implement this, add a **copy link** action to each item, in whatever way best suits your UI. When the user takes this action, call `shareDeepLink()` to display a dialog containing a link that the user can copy to the clipboard. When you make this call, pass an ID for your item. You get it back in [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) when the link is followed and your tab is reloaded.

```javascript
microsoftTeams.shareDeepLink({ subEntityId: <subEntityId>, subEntityLabel: <subEntityLabel>, subEntityWebUrl: <subEntityWebUrl> })
```

You'll need to replace the fields with the appropriate information:

* `subEntityId`: A unique identifier for the item within your tab to which you're deep linking.
* `subEntityLabel`: A label for the item to use for displaying the deep link.
* `subEntityWebUrl`: An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering the tab.

---

Alternatively, you can also generate deep links programmatically using the format specified later in this article. You can use deep links in [bot](~/bots/what-are-bots.md) and [connector](~/webhooks-and-connectors/what-are-webhooks-and-connectors.md) messages that inform users about changes to your tab, or to items within it.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * This deep link is different from the links provided by the **Copy link to tab** menu item, which just generates a deep link that points to this tab.
> * Currently, `shareDeepLink` doesn't work on mobile platforms.

## Generate a deep link to your tab

While it's recommended to use `shareDeepLink()` to generate a deep link to your tab, it's also possible to create one manually.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * Personal tabs have a `personal` scope, while channel and group tabs use `team` or `group` scopes. The two tab types have a slightly different syntax since only the configurable tab has a `channel` property associated with its context object. For more information on tab scopes, see the [manifest](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) reference.
> * Deep links work properly only if the tab was configured using the v0.4 or later library as it has an entity ID. Deep links to tabs without entity IDs still go to the tab but can't provide the subentity ID to the tab.

Use the following format for a deep link that you can use in a bot, connector, or message extension card:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/<entityId>?webUrl=<entityWebUrl>&label=<entityLabel>&context=<context>&openInMeeting=false`

> [!NOTE]
>
> * If the bot sends a message containing a `TextBlock` with a deep link, then a new browser tab is opened when the user selects the link. This happens in Chrome and in the Teams desktop app, both running on Linux.
> * If the bot sends the same deep link URL into an `Action.OpenUrl`, then the Teams tab opens in the current browser tab when the user selects the link.

The query parameters are:

| Parameter name | Description | Example |
|:------------|:--------------|:---------------------|
| `appId`&emsp; | The ID from Teams Admin Center. |fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194|
| `entityId`&emsp; | The ID for the item in the tab, which you provided when [configuring the tab](~/tabs/how-to/create-tab-pages/configuration-page.md). When generating a URL for deep linking, continue to use entity ID as a parameter name in the URL. When configuring the tab, the context object refers to the entityID as {page.id}. |Tasklist123|
| `entityWebUrl` or `subEntityWebUrl`&emsp; | An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering the tab. | `https://tasklist.example.com/123` or `https://tasklist.example.com/list123/task456` |
| `entityLabel` or `subEntityLabel`&emsp; | A label for the item in your tab to use when displaying the deep link. | Task List 123 or Task 456 |
| `context.subEntityId`&emsp; | An ID for the item within the tab. When generating a URL for deep linking, continue to use subEntityId as the parameter name in the URL. When configuring the tab, the context object refers to the subEntityID as subPageID. |Task456 |
| `context.channelId`&emsp; | Microsoft Teams channel ID that is available from the tab [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md). This property is only available in configurable tabs with a scope of **team**. It isn't available in static tabs, which have a scope of **personal**.| 19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype |
| `context.chatId`&emsp; | Chat ID that is available from the tab [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) for group and meeting chat. | 17:b42de192376346a7906a7dd5cb84b673@thread.v2 |
| `context.contextType`&emsp; |  Chat is the only supported contextType for meetings. | chat |
| `openInMeeting`&emsp; | `openInMeeting` is used to control the user experience when the target tab is associated with a meeting. If user interacts with the deep link in an ongoing meeting experience, by default Teams opens the app in the in-meeting side panel. Set this value to `false` to always open the app in the meeting chat tab rather than the side panel, regardless of the meeting status. Teams ignore any value other than `false`. | `false` |

**Examples**:

* Link to a static (personal) tab itself:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&label=Task List 123`

* Link to a task item within the static (personal) tab:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456&context={"subEntityId": "task456"}`

* Link to a configurable tab itself:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&label=Task List 123&context={"channelId": "19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype"}`

* Link to a task item within the configurable tab:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456&context={"subEntityId": "task456","channelId": "19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype"}`

* Link to a tab app added to a meeting or group chat:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456?context={"chatId": "17:b42de192376346a7906a7dd5cb84b673@thread.v2","contextType":"chat"}`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure that all the query parameters and the white spaces are properly URI encoded. You must follow the preceding examples using the last example:
>
> ```javascript
> var encodedWebUrl = encodeURIComponent(JSON.stringify('https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456'));
> var encodedContext = encodeURIComponent(JSON.stringify({"subEntityId": "task456"}));
> var taskItemUrl = 'https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=' + encodedWebUrl + '&context=' + encodedContext;
> ```

### Navigation from your tab

You can navigate to content in Teams from your tab using TeamsJS or deep links. This is useful if your tab needs to connect users with other content in Teams, such as to a channel, message, another tab, or to open a scheduling dialog. Formerly, navigation might have required a deep link, but it can now in many instances be accomplished using the TeamsJS library. But where possible use of the typed capabilities of the TeamsJS library is recommended.

One of the benefits of using TeamsJS, particularly for Teams app that might run in other hosts (Outlook and Office), is that it's possible to check if the host supports the capability you're attempting to use. To check a host's support of a capability, you can use the `isSupported()` function associated with the namespace of the API. The TeamsJS library organizes APIs into capabilities by way of namespaces. For example, prior to usage of an API in the `pages` namespace you can check the returned Boolean value from `pages.isSupported()` and take the appropriate action within the context of your app and apps UI.  

For more information about capabilities and the APIs in the TeamsJS library, see [Building tabs and other hosted experiences with the TeamsJS library](~/tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md#apis-organized-into-capabilities).

### Deep link for SharePoint Framework tabs

You can use the following deep link format in a bot, connector, or message extension card:
`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/<EntityId>?webUrl=<entityWebUrl>/<EntityName>`.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * When a bot sends a TextBlock message with a deep link, a new browser tab opens when users select the link. This happens in Chrome and Microsoft Teams desktop app running on Linux.
> * If the bot sends the same deep link URL in an `Action.OpenUrl`, the Teams tab opens in the current browser when the user selects the link. No new browser tab is opened.

The query parameters are:

* `appID`: Your manifest ID, for example `fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194`.

* `entityID`: The item ID that you provided when [configuring the tab](~/tabs/how-to/create-tab-pages/configuration-page.md). For example, `tasklist123`.
* `entityWebUrl`: An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering of the tab - `https://tasklist.example.com/123` or `https://tasklist.example.com/list123/task456`.
* `entityName`: A label for the item in your tab to use when displaying the deep link, `Task List 123` or `Task 456`.

Example: `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&TaskList`

## Deep link to open a task module

A task module deep link is a serialization of the `TaskInfo` object with two other details, the `APP_ID` and optionally the `BOT_APP_ID`:

* `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/task/APP_ID?url=<TaskInfo.url>&height=<TaskInfo.height>&width=<TaskInfo.width>&title=<TaskInfo.title>&completionBotId=BOT_APP_ID`

* `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/task/APP_ID?card=<TaskInfo.card>&height=<TaskInfo.height>&width=<TaskInfo.width>&title=<TaskInfo.title>&completionBotId=BOT_APP_ID`

For the data types and allowable values for `<TaskInfo.url>`, `<TaskInfo.card>`, `<TaskInfo.height>`, `<TaskInfo.width>`, and `<TaskInfo.title>`, see [TaskInfo object](~/task-modules-and-cards/task-modules/invoking-task-modules.md#the-taskinfo-object).

> [!TIP]
> Encode the deep link URL when using the `card` parameter, for example, JavaScript [`encodeURI()` function](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_encodeURI.asp).

The following table provides information on `APP_ID` and `BOT_APP_ID`:

| Value | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `APP_ID` | string | Yes | The [ID](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#id) of the app invoking the task module. The [validDomains array](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#validdomains) in the manifest for `APP_ID` must contain the domain for `url` if `url` is in the URL. The app ID is already known when a task module is invoked from a tab or a bot, which is why it isn't included in `TaskInfo`. |
| `BOT_APP_ID` | string | No | If a value for `completionBotId` is specified, the `result` object is sent using a `task/submit invoke` message to the specified bot. `BOT_APP_ID` must be specified as a bot in the app's manifest, that is you can't send it to any bot. |

> [!NOTE]
> `APP_ID` and `BOT_APP_ID` can be the same in many cases, if an app has a recommended bot to use as an app's ID and if there is one.

## Code Sample

| Sample name | Description | .NET |Node.js|
|-------------|-------------|------|----|
|Deep link consuming Subentity ID | This sample shows how to use deep-link from bot chat to tab consuming Subentity ID. It also shows deeplinks for navigate to app, navigate to chat, open profile dialog and open scheduling dialog.|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-deeplink/csharp)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-deeplink/nodejs)|

Commit message:

[Doc Improvement][Update app ID for deep links][3102800] (#8903)
* minor edits

* minor edit

* minor edit

* minor edit

* minor edit

* minor edits

* Update deep-link-application.md

* Update deep-link-application.md

* minor edit

---------

Co-authored-by: v-ypalikila <93579821+v-ypalikila@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: v-npaladugu <91744224+v-npaladugu@users.noreply.github.com>

msteams-platform/concepts/build-and-test/deep-link-application.md, after:

---
title: Deep link to an application 
author: v-npaladugu
description: Learn how to create deep links to an application and navigate using them in your Microsoft Teams apps and tabs.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Deep link to an application

Application can open the profile dialog through deep links and help users to learn more about the application, permissions, and more. You can create a deep link for the app after the app is listed in the Teams store. To create a link to launch Teams, append the app ID to the URL, `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>`. A dialog appears to install or open the app.

If your app is approved for mobile platform, you can deep link to an app on mobile. Apple App Store Connect Team ID is required additionally for the deep link to work on Teams-iOS. For more information, see [how to update Apple App Store Connect Team ID](../deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/update-apple-store-team-connect-id.md).

Deep link to an app isn't supported for custom apps.

[!INCLUDE [sdk-include](~/includes/sdk-include.md)]

## Open the application profile dialog

You can open an app install dialog from your Teams app and also can install the app in other contexts. Use the following deep link format to open an app install dialog from your Teams:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>`, where `<appId>` is the application ID.

Applications can use the TeamsJS library to open the dialog without manually generating the deep link. Following is an example to open the app install dialog using TeamsJS:

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

```javascript
// Open an app install dialog from your tab
if(appInstallDialog.isSupported()) {
    const dialogPromise = appInstallDialog.openAppInstallDialog({ appId: "<appId>" });
    dialogPromise.
      then((result) => {/*Successful operation*/}).
      catch((error) => {/*Unsuccessful operation*/});
}
else { /* handle case where capability isn't supported */ }
```

For more information about the install dialog, see the [appInstallDialog.openAppInstallDialog()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/appinstalldialog?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-appinstalldialog-openappinstalldialog&preserve-view=true) function in the API reference documentation.

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

```javascript
// Open an app install dialog from your tab
microsoftTeams.executeDeepLink("https://teams.microsoft.com/l/app/<appId>");
```

---

## Navigate within your app

It's possible to navigate within an app using TeamsJS. The following code demonstrates how to navigate to a specific entity within your Teams app.

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

You can trigger navigation from your tab using the [pages.navigateToApp()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-navigatetoapp&preserve-view=true) function as shown in the following code:

```javascript
if (pages.isSupported()) {
  const navPromise = pages.navigateToApp({ appId: <appId>, pageId: <pageId>, webUrl: <webUrl>, subPageId: <subPageId>, channelId:<channelId>});
  navPromise.
     then((result) => {/*Successful navigation*/}).
     catch((error) => {/*Failed navigation*/});
}
else { /* handle case where capability isn't supported */ }
```

For more information about navigation within a tab app, see [navigate within a tab app](../../tabs/how-to/tab-navigation.md). For more information about using the pages capability, see [pages.navigateToApp()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-navigatetoapp&preserve-view=true) and the [pages](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true) namespace for other navigation options. If needed directly open a deep link using the [app.openLink()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/app?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-app-openlink&preserve-view=true) function.

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

To trigger a deep link from your tab, call:

```javascript
microsoftTeams.executeDeepLink(/*deepLink*/);
```

---

The navigation behavior of a Teams app extended across Microsoft 365 Office is dependent on two factors:

1. The target that the deep link points to.
1. The host where the Teams app is running.

If the Teams app is running within the host where the deep link is targeted, your app will open directly within the host. However, if the Teams app is running in a different host from where the deep link is targeted, the app will first open in the browser.

## Navigate to a chat with the application

You can navigate a user to a personal chat with the application by preparing the link manually using the following format:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/conversations`, where `appId` is your application ID and following lists `appId` for different apps:

* Side loaded apps: Manifest ID
* Apps submitted to org catalog: Org catalog ID
* Apps submitted to Teams app store: Store ID

## Navigate to a tab

You can create deep links to entities in Teams apps. This method is used to create links that navigate to content and information within your tab. For example, if your tab contains a task list, team members can create and share links to individual tasks. When you select the link, it navigates to your tab that focuses on the specific item.

# [TeamsJS v2](#tab/teamsjs-v2)

To implement, add a **copy link** action to each item, in whatever way best suits your UI. When the user takes this action, call [`pages.shareDeepLink()`](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-sharedeeplink&preserve-view=true) to display a dialog containing a link that the user can copy to the clipboard. When you make this call, pass an ID for your item. You get it back in [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) when the link is followed and your tab is reloaded.

```javascript
pages.shareDeepLink({ subPageId: <subPageId>, subPageLabel: <subPageLabel>, subPageWebUrl: <subPageWebUrl> })
```

You'll need to replace the fields with the appropriate information:

* `subPageId`: A unique identifier for the item within your page to which you're deep linking.
* `subPageLabel`: A label for the item to use for displaying the deep link.
* `subPageWebUrl`: A fallback URL to use if the client can't render the page.

For more information, see [pages.shareDeepLink()](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/pages?view=msteams-client-js-latest#@microsoft-teams-js-pages-sharedeeplink&preserve-view=true).

# [TeamsJS v1](#tab/teamsjs-v1)

To implement this, add a **copy link** action to each item, in whatever way best suits your UI. When the user takes this action, call `shareDeepLink()` to display a dialog containing a link that the user can copy to the clipboard. When you make this call, pass an ID for your item. You get it back in [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) when the link is followed and your tab is reloaded.

```javascript
microsoftTeams.shareDeepLink({ subEntityId: <subEntityId>, subEntityLabel: <subEntityLabel>, subEntityWebUrl: <subEntityWebUrl> })
```

You'll need to replace the fields with the appropriate information:

* `subEntityId`: A unique identifier for the item within your tab to which you're deep linking.
* `subEntityLabel`: A label for the item to use for displaying the deep link.
* `subEntityWebUrl`: An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering the tab.

---

Alternatively, you can also generate deep links programmatically using the format specified later in this article. You can use deep links in [bot](~/bots/what-are-bots.md) and [connector](~/webhooks-and-connectors/what-are-webhooks-and-connectors.md) messages that inform users about changes to your tab, or to items within it.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * This deep link is different from the links provided by the **Copy link to tab** menu item, which just generates a deep link that points to this tab.
> * Currently, `shareDeepLink` doesn't work on mobile platforms.

## Generate a deep link to your tab

While it's recommended to use `shareDeepLink()` to generate a deep link to your tab, it's also possible to create one manually.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * Personal tabs have a `personal` scope, while channel and group tabs use `team` or `group` scopes. The two tab types have a slightly different syntax since only the configurable tab has a `channel` property associated with its context object. For more information on tab scopes, see the [manifest](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) reference.
> * Deep links work properly only if the tab was configured using the v0.4 or later library as it has an entity ID. Deep links to tabs without entity IDs still go to the tab but can't provide the subentity ID to the tab.

Use the following format for a deep link that you can use in a bot, connector, or message extension card:

`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/<entityId>?webUrl=<entityWebUrl>&label=<entityLabel>&context=<context>&openInMeeting=false`

> [!NOTE]
>
> * If the bot sends a message containing a `TextBlock` with a deep link, then a new browser tab is opened when the user selects the link. This happens in Chrome and in the Teams desktop app, both running on Linux.
> * If the bot sends the same deep link URL into an `Action.OpenUrl`, then the Teams tab opens in the current browser tab when the user selects the link.

The query parameters are:

| Parameter name | Description | Example |
|:------------|:--------------|:---------------------|
| `appId`&emsp; | The ID from Microsoft Teams admin center. |fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194|
| `entityId`&emsp; | The ID for the item in the tab, which you provided when [configuring the tab](~/tabs/how-to/create-tab-pages/configuration-page.md). When generating a URL for deep linking, continue to use entity ID as a parameter name in the URL. When configuring the tab, the context object refers to the entityID as {page.id}. |Tasklist123|
| `entityWebUrl` or `subEntityWebUrl`&emsp; | An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering the tab. | `https://tasklist.example.com/123` or `https://tasklist.example.com/list123/task456` |
| `entityLabel` or `subEntityLabel`&emsp; | A label for the item in your tab to use when displaying the deep link. | Task List 123 or Task 456 |
| `context.subEntityId`&emsp; | An ID for the item within the tab. When generating a URL for deep linking, continue to use subEntityId as the parameter name in the URL. When configuring the tab, the context object refers to the subEntityID as subPageID. |Task456 |
| `context.channelId`&emsp; | Microsoft Teams channel ID that is available from the tab [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md). This property is only available in configurable tabs with a scope of **team**. It isn't available in static tabs, which have a scope of **personal**.| 19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype |
| `context.chatId`&emsp; | Chat ID that is available from the tab [context](~/tabs/how-to/access-teams-context.md) for group and meeting chat. | 17:b42de192376346a7906a7dd5cb84b673@thread.v2 |
| `context.contextType`&emsp; |  Chat is the only supported contextType for meetings. | chat |
| `openInMeeting`&emsp; | `openInMeeting` is used to control the user experience when the target tab is associated with a meeting. If user interacts with the deep link in an ongoing meeting experience, by default Teams opens the app in the in-meeting side panel. Set this value to `false` to always open the app in the meeting chat tab rather than the side panel, regardless of the meeting status. Teams ignore any value other than `false`. | `false` |

**Examples**:

* Link to a static (personal) tab itself:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&label=Task List 123`

* Link to a task item within the static (personal) tab:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456&context={"subEntityId": "task456"}`

* Link to a configurable tab itself:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&label=Task List 123&context={"channelId": "19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype"}`

* Link to a task item within the configurable tab:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456&context={"subEntityId": "task456","channelId": "19:cbe3683f25094106b826c9cada3afbe0@thread.skype"}`

* Link to a tab app added to a meeting or group chat:

    >`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456?context={"chatId": "17:b42de192376346a7906a7dd5cb84b673@thread.v2","contextType":"chat"}`

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Ensure that all the query parameters and the white spaces are properly URI encoded. You must follow the preceding examples using the last example:
>
> ```javascript
> var encodedWebUrl = encodeURIComponent(JSON.stringify('https://tasklist.example.com/123/456&label=Task 456'));
> var encodedContext = encodeURIComponent(JSON.stringify({"subEntityId": "task456"}));
> var taskItemUrl = 'https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=' + encodedWebUrl + '&context=' + encodedContext;
> ```

### Navigation from your tab

You can navigate to content in Teams from your tab using TeamsJS or deep links. This is useful if your tab needs to connect users with other content in Teams, such as to a channel, message, another tab, or to open a scheduling dialog. Formerly, navigation might have required a deep link, but it can now in many instances be accomplished using the TeamsJS library. But where possible use of the typed capabilities of the TeamsJS library is recommended.

One of the benefits of using TeamsJS, particularly for Teams app that might run in other hosts (Outlook and Office), is that it's possible to check if the host supports the capability you're attempting to use. To check a host's support of a capability, you can use the `isSupported()` function associated with the namespace of the API. The TeamsJS library organizes APIs into capabilities by way of namespaces. For example, prior to usage of an API in the `pages` namespace you can check the returned Boolean value from `pages.isSupported()` and take the appropriate action within the context of your app and apps UI.  

For more information about capabilities and the APIs in the TeamsJS library, see [Building tabs and other hosted experiences with the TeamsJS library](~/tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md#apis-organized-into-capabilities).

### Deep link for SharePoint Framework tabs

You can use the following deep link format in a bot, connector, or message extension card:
`https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/<appId>/<EntityId>?webUrl=<entityWebUrl>/<EntityName>`.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * When a bot sends a TextBlock message with a deep link, a new browser tab opens when users select the link. This happens in Chrome and Microsoft Teams desktop app running on Linux.
> * If the bot sends the same deep link URL in an `Action.OpenUrl`, the Teams tab opens in the current browser when the user selects the link. No new browser tab is opened.

The query parameters are:

* `appID`: Your manifest ID, for example `fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194`.

* `entityID`: The item ID that you provided when [configuring the tab](~/tabs/how-to/create-tab-pages/configuration-page.md). For example, `tasklist123`.
* `entityWebUrl`: An optional field with a fallback URL to use if the client doesn't support rendering of the tab - `https://tasklist.example.com/123` or `https://tasklist.example.com/list123/task456`.
* `entityName`: A label for the item in your tab to use when displaying the deep link, `Task List 123` or `Task 456`.

Example: `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/entity/fe4a8eba-2a31-4737-8e33-e5fae6fee194/tasklist123?webUrl=https://tasklist.example.com/123&TaskList`

## Deep link to open a task module

A task module deep link is a serialization of the `TaskInfo` object with two other details, the `APP_ID` and optionally the `BOT_APP_ID`:

* `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/task/APP_ID?url=<TaskInfo.url>&height=<TaskInfo.height>&width=<TaskInfo.width>&title=<TaskInfo.title>&completionBotId=BOT_APP_ID`

* `https://teams.microsoft.com/l/task/APP_ID?card=<TaskInfo.card>&height=<TaskInfo.height>&width=<TaskInfo.width>&title=<TaskInfo.title>&completionBotId=BOT_APP_ID`

For the data types and allowable values for `<TaskInfo.url>`, `<TaskInfo.card>`, `<TaskInfo.height>`, `<TaskInfo.width>`, and `<TaskInfo.title>`, see [TaskInfo object](~/task-modules-and-cards/task-modules/invoking-task-modules.md#the-taskinfo-object).

> [!TIP]
> Encode the deep link URL when using the `card` parameter, for example, JavaScript [`encodeURI()` function](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_encodeURI.asp).

The following table provides information on `APP_ID` and `BOT_APP_ID`:

| Value | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `APP_ID` | string | Yes | For third-party apps, use the app `id` from manifest or the `APP_ID` from Teams admin center as they are identical. For Line of business (LOB) or custom apps, use the `APP_ID` from Teams admin center or use the [Graph API](/graph/api/application-list). The [validDomains array](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#validdomains) in the manifest for `APP_ID` must contain the domain for `url` if `url` is present in the deep-link URL. The app ID is already known when a task module is invoked from a tab or a bot, which is why it isn't included in `TaskInfo`. |
| `BOT_APP_ID` | string | No | If a value for `completionBotId` is specified, the `result` object is sent using a `task/submit invoke` message to the specified bot. `BOT_APP_ID` must be specified as a bot in the app's manifest, that is you can't send it to any bot. |

> [!NOTE]
> `APP_ID` and `BOT_APP_ID` can be the same in many cases, if an app has a recommended bot to use as an app's ID and if there is one.

## Code Sample

| Sample name | Description | .NET |Node.js|
|-------------|-------------|------|----|
|Deep link consuming Subentity ID | This sample shows how to use deep-link from bot chat to tab consuming Subentity ID. It also shows deeplinks for navigate to app, navigate to chat, open profile dialog and open scheduling dialog.|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-deeplink/csharp)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-deeplink/nodejs)|
