msteams-platform/messaging-extensions/how-to/add-configuration-page.md, before:

---
title: Add a configuration page to your messaging extension
author: clearab
description: How to add a configuration page to a messaging extension
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: anclear
---
# Add a configuration page to your messaging extension

[!include[v4-to-v3-SDK-pointer](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-me.md)]

## Bot Framework Samples

The Teams Search Auth Config for [**JavaScript/Node.js**](https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/javascript_nodejs/52.teams-messaging-extensions-search-auth-config) and [**C-Sharp/DotNetCore**](https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/52.teams-messaging-extensions-search-auth-config) sample projects, found on GitHub, demonstrate how to create messaging extensions that include a configuration page and Bot Service authentication. The samples also demonstrate how to create message extensions that accept search requests and return the results after the user has signed in.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [View more Bot Framework Samples on GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples)

Commit message:

created tables for code samples
created tables for code samples

msteams-platform/messaging-extensions/how-to/add-configuration-page.md, after:

---
title: Add a configuration page to your messaging extension
author: clearab
description: How to add a configuration page to a messaging extension
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: anclear
---
# Add a configuration page to your messaging extension

[!include[v4-to-v3-SDK-pointer](~/includes/v4-to-v3-pointer-me.md)]

## Code sample

The Teams Search Auth Config for sample projects on GitHub, demonstrate how to create messaging extensions that include a configuration page and Bot Service authentication. The samples also demonstrate how to create message extensions that accept search requests and return the results after the user has signed in.

| **Sample name** | **Description** | **Node.js** | **.NET** |
|-----------------|-----------------|-------------|--------------|
| Bot builder | To create messaging extensions. | [View]((https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/javascript_nodejs/52.teams-messaging-extensions-search-auth-config)) | [View](https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples/tree/master/samples/csharp_dotnetcore/52.teams-messaging-extensions-search-auth-config) |

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [View more Bot Framework Samples on GitHub](https://github.com/microsoft/BotBuilder-Samples)
