msteams-platform/tabs/tabs-link-unfurling.md, before:

---
title: Tabs link unfurling and Stage View
author: Rajeshwari-v
description: Learn about stage view, a full screen UI component invoked to surface your web content. Link unfurling is used to turn URLs into a tab using Adaptive Cards.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Tabs link unfurling and Stage View

Stage View is a new user interface (UI) component. It allows you to render the content that is opened in full screen in Teams and pinned as a tab.

[!INCLUDE [sdk-include](~/includes/sdk-include.md)]

## Stage View

Stage View is a full screen UI component that you can invoke to surface your web content. The existing link unfurling service is updated so that it's used to turn URLs into a tab using an Adaptive Card and Chat Services. When a user sends a URL in a chat or channel, the URL is unfurled to an Adaptive Card. The user can select **View** in the card, and pin the content as a tab directly from Stage View.

## Advantage of Stage View

Stage View helps provide a more seamless experience of viewing content in Teams. Users can open and view the content provided by your app without leaving the context, and they can pin the content to the chat or channel for future quick access leading to a higher user engagement with your app.

## Stage View vs. Dialog

|Stage View|Dialog|
|:-----------|:-----------|
|Stage View is useful when you have rich content to display to the users, such as a page, a dashboard, a file, and so on. It provides rich features that help to render your content in the full-screen canvas.|[Dialog](../task-modules-and-cards/task-modules/task-modules-tabs.md) is especially useful to display messages that require user attention, or collect information required to move to the next step.|
  
## Invoke Stage View

You can invoke Stage View in the following  ways:

* [Invoke Stage View from Adaptive Card](#invoke-stage-view-from-adaptive-card)
* [Invoke Stage View through deep link](#invoke-stage-view-through-deep-link)

## Invoke Stage View from Adaptive Card

When the user enters a URL on the Teams desktop client, the bot is invoked and returns an [Adaptive Card](../task-modules-and-cards/cards/cards-actions.md) with the option to open the URL in a stage. After a stage is launched and the `tabInfo` is provided, you can add the ability to pin the stage as a tab.  

The following images display a stage opened from an Adaptive Card:

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the open stage from Adaptive Card."lightbox="~/assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card1.png":::

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the open stage from card."lightbox="~/assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card2.png":::

### Example

Following is the code to open a stage from an Adaptive Card:

```json
{
    type: "Action.Submit",
    name: "View",
    data: {
          msteams: {
            type: "invoke",
            value: {
                type: "tab/tabInfoAction",
                tabInfo: {
                    contentUrl: contentUrl,
                    websiteUrl: websiteUrl,
                    name: "Tasks",
                    entityId: "entityId"
                 }
                }
            }
        }
} 
```

The `invoke` request type must be `composeExtension/queryLink`.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * `invoke` workflow is similar to the current `appLinking` workflow.
> * To maintain consistency, it is recommended to name `Action.Submit` as `View`.
> * `websiteUrl` is a required property to be passed in the `TabInfo` object.

Following is the process to invoke Stage View:

* When the user selects **View**, the bot receives an `invoke` request. The request type is `composeExtension/queryLink`.
* `invoke` response from bot contains an Adaptive Card with type `tab/tabInfoAction` in it.
* The bot responds with a `200` code.

> [!NOTE]
>
> On Teams mobile clients, invoking Stage View for apps distributed through the [Teams store](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-publish-overview.md) and not having a mobile-optimized experience opens the default web browser of the device. The browser opens the URL specified in the `websiteUrl` parameter of the `TabInfo` object.

## Invoke Stage View through deep link

To invoke the Stage View through deep link from your tab, you must wrap the deep link URL in the `app.openLink(url)` API. The deep link can also be passed through an `OpenURL` action in the card.

### Syntax

Following is the deep link syntax:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/{appId}/0?context>={"contentUrl":"contentUrl","websiteUrl":"websiteUrl","name":"Contoso"}`

### Examples

When a user enters a URL, it's unfurled into an Adaptive Card.

Following are the deep link examples to invoke Stage View:

**Example 1: URL with threadId**

Unencoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/be411542-2bd5-46fb-8deb-a3d5f85156f6/0?context>={"contentUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191","websiteUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191?standalone=true","title":"Quotes: Miscellaneous","threadId":"19:9UryYW9rjwnq-vwmBcexGjN1zQSNX0Y4oEAgtUC7WI81@thread.tacv2"}`

Encoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/be411542-2bd5-46fb-8deb-a3d5f85156f6/0?context=%7B%22contentUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%22%2C%22websiteUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%3Fstandalone%3Dtrue%22%2C%22title%22%3A%22Quotes%3A%20Miscellaneous%22%2C%22threadId%22%3A%2219:9UryYW9rjwnq-vwmBcexGjN1zQSNX0Y4oEAgtUC7WI81@thread.tacv2%22%7D>`

**Example 2: URL with no threadId**

Unencoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/43f56af0-8615-49e6-9635-7bea3b5802c2/0?context>={"contentUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191","websiteUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191?standalone=true","title":"Quotes: Miscellaneous"}`

Encoded

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/43f56af0-8615-49e6-9635-7bea3b5802c2/0?context=%7B%22contentUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%22%2C%22websiteUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%3Fstandalone%3Dtrue%22%2C%22title%22%3A%22Quotes%3A%20Miscellaneous%22%7D>`

> [!NOTE]
> All deep links must be encoded before pasting the URL. We don't support unencoded URLs.
>
> * The `name` is optional in deep link. If not included, the app name replaces it.
> * The deep link can also be passed through an `OpenURL` action.
> * When you launch a Stage from a certain context, ensure that your app works in that context. For example, if your Stage View is launched from a personal app, you must ensure your app has a personal scope.

## Tab information property

| Property name | Type | Number of characters | Description |
|:-----------|:---------|:------------|:-----------------------|
| `entityId` | String | 64 | This property is a  unique identifier for the entity that the tab displays. This is a required field.|
| `name` | String | 128 | This property is the display name of the tab in the channel interface. This is an optional field.|
| `contentUrl` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL that points to the entity UI to be displayed in the Teams canvas. This is a required field.|
| `websiteUrl?` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL to point at, if a user selects to view in a browser. This is a required field.|
| `removeUrl?` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL that points to the UI to be displayed when the user deletes the tab. This is an optional field.|

## Code sample

| Sample name | Description | .NET |Node.js| Manifest|
|-------------|-------------|------|----|----|
|Tab in stage view |Microsoft Teams tab sample app for demonstrating tab in stage view.|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/csharp)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/nodejs)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/csharp/demo-manifest/tab-stage-view.zip)|

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Create conversational tabs](~/tabs/how-to/conversational-tabs.md)

## See also

* [Build tabs for Teams](what-are-tabs.md)
* [Add link unfurling](../messaging-extensions/how-to/link-unfurling.md)
* [composeExtensions](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#composeextensions)
* [Build tabs with Adaptive Cards](how-to/build-adaptive-card-tabs.md)
* [Create deep links](../concepts/build-and-test/deep-links.md)

Commit message:

Include mention of "task module" to ease terminology transition

msteams-platform/tabs/tabs-link-unfurling.md, after:

---
title: Tabs link unfurling and Stage View
author: Rajeshwari-v
description: Learn about stage view, a full screen UI component invoked to surface your web content. Link unfurling is used to turn URLs into a tab using Adaptive Cards.
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

# Tabs link unfurling and Stage View

Stage View is a new user interface (UI) component. It allows you to render the content that is opened in full screen in Teams and pinned as a tab.

[!INCLUDE [sdk-include](~/includes/sdk-include.md)]

## Stage View

Stage View is a full screen UI component that you can invoke to surface your web content. The existing link unfurling service is updated so that it's used to turn URLs into a tab using an Adaptive Card and Chat Services. When a user sends a URL in a chat or channel, the URL is unfurled to an Adaptive Card. The user can select **View** in the card, and pin the content as a tab directly from Stage View.

## Advantage of Stage View

Stage View helps provide a more seamless experience of viewing content in Teams. Users can open and view the content provided by your app without leaving the context, and they can pin the content to the chat or channel for future quick access leading to a higher user engagement with your app.

## Stage View vs. Dialogs

|Stage View|Dialog|
|:-----------|:-----------|
|Stage View is useful when you have rich content to display to the users, such as a page, a dashboard, a file, and so on. It provides rich features that help to render your content in the full-screen canvas.|[Dialogs](../task-modules-and-cards/task-modules/task-modules-tabs.md) (task module) are especially useful to display messages that require user attention, or collect information required to move to the next step.|
  
## Invoke Stage View

You can invoke Stage View in the following  ways:

* [Invoke Stage View from Adaptive Card](#invoke-stage-view-from-adaptive-card)
* [Invoke Stage View through deep link](#invoke-stage-view-through-deep-link)

## Invoke Stage View from Adaptive Card

When the user enters a URL on the Teams desktop client, the bot is invoked and returns an [Adaptive Card](../task-modules-and-cards/cards/cards-actions.md) with the option to open the URL in a stage. After a stage is launched and the `tabInfo` is provided, you can add the ability to pin the stage as a tab.  

The following images display a stage opened from an Adaptive Card:

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the open stage from Adaptive Card."lightbox="~/assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card1.png":::

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the open stage from card."lightbox="~/assets/images/tab-images/open-stage-from-adaptive-card2.png":::

### Example

Following is the code to open a stage from an Adaptive Card:

```json
{
    type: "Action.Submit",
    name: "View",
    data: {
          msteams: {
            type: "invoke",
            value: {
                type: "tab/tabInfoAction",
                tabInfo: {
                    contentUrl: contentUrl,
                    websiteUrl: websiteUrl,
                    name: "Tasks",
                    entityId: "entityId"
                 }
                }
            }
        }
} 
```

The `invoke` request type must be `composeExtension/queryLink`.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * `invoke` workflow is similar to the current `appLinking` workflow.
> * To maintain consistency, it is recommended to name `Action.Submit` as `View`.
> * `websiteUrl` is a required property to be passed in the `TabInfo` object.

Following is the process to invoke Stage View:

* When the user selects **View**, the bot receives an `invoke` request. The request type is `composeExtension/queryLink`.
* `invoke` response from bot contains an Adaptive Card with type `tab/tabInfoAction` in it.
* The bot responds with a `200` code.

> [!NOTE]
>
> On Teams mobile clients, invoking Stage View for apps distributed through the [Teams store](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/apps-publish-overview.md) and not having a mobile-optimized experience opens the default web browser of the device. The browser opens the URL specified in the `websiteUrl` parameter of the `TabInfo` object.

## Invoke Stage View through deep link

To invoke the Stage View through deep link from your tab, you must wrap the deep link URL in the `app.openLink(url)` API. The deep link can also be passed through an `OpenURL` action in the card.

### Syntax

Following is the deep link syntax:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/{appId}/0?context>={"contentUrl":"contentUrl","websiteUrl":"websiteUrl","name":"Contoso"}`

### Examples

When a user enters a URL, it's unfurled into an Adaptive Card.

Following are the deep link examples to invoke Stage View:

**Example 1: URL with threadId**

Unencoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/be411542-2bd5-46fb-8deb-a3d5f85156f6/0?context>={"contentUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191","websiteUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191?standalone=true","title":"Quotes: Miscellaneous","threadId":"19:9UryYW9rjwnq-vwmBcexGjN1zQSNX0Y4oEAgtUC7WI81@thread.tacv2"}`

Encoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/be411542-2bd5-46fb-8deb-a3d5f85156f6/0?context=%7B%22contentUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%22%2C%22websiteUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%3Fstandalone%3Dtrue%22%2C%22title%22%3A%22Quotes%3A%20Miscellaneous%22%2C%22threadId%22%3A%2219:9UryYW9rjwnq-vwmBcexGjN1zQSNX0Y4oEAgtUC7WI81@thread.tacv2%22%7D>`

**Example 2: URL with no threadId**

Unencoded URL:

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/43f56af0-8615-49e6-9635-7bea3b5802c2/0?context>={"contentUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191","websiteUrl":"https://teams-alb.wakelet.com/teams/collection/e4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191?standalone=true","title":"Quotes: Miscellaneous"}`

Encoded

`<https://teams.microsoft.com/l/stage/43f56af0-8615-49e6-9635-7bea3b5802c2/0?context=%7B%22contentUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%22%2C%22websiteUrl%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fteams-alb.wakelet.com%2Fteams%2Fcollection%2Fe4173826-5dae-4de0-b77d-bfabafd6f191%3Fstandalone%3Dtrue%22%2C%22title%22%3A%22Quotes%3A%20Miscellaneous%22%7D>`

> [!NOTE]
> All deep links must be encoded before pasting the URL. We don't support unencoded URLs.
>
> * The `name` is optional in deep link. If not included, the app name replaces it.
> * The deep link can also be passed through an `OpenURL` action.
> * When you launch a Stage from a certain context, ensure that your app works in that context. For example, if your Stage View is launched from a personal app, you must ensure your app has a personal scope.

## Tab information property

| Property name | Type | Number of characters | Description |
|:-----------|:---------|:------------|:-----------------------|
| `entityId` | String | 64 | This property is a  unique identifier for the entity that the tab displays. This is a required field.|
| `name` | String | 128 | This property is the display name of the tab in the channel interface. This is an optional field.|
| `contentUrl` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL that points to the entity UI to be displayed in the Teams canvas. This is a required field.|
| `websiteUrl?` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL to point at, if a user selects to view in a browser. This is a required field.|
| `removeUrl?` | String | 2048 | This property is the https:// URL that points to the UI to be displayed when the user deletes the tab. This is an optional field.|

## Code sample

| Sample name | Description | .NET |Node.js| Manifest|
|-------------|-------------|------|----|----|
|Tab in stage view |Microsoft Teams tab sample app for demonstrating tab in stage view.|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/csharp)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/nodejs)|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-stage-view/csharp/demo-manifest/tab-stage-view.zip)|

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Create conversational tabs](~/tabs/how-to/conversational-tabs.md)

## See also

* [Build tabs for Teams](what-are-tabs.md)
* [Add link unfurling](../messaging-extensions/how-to/link-unfurling.md)
* [composeExtensions](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#composeextensions)
* [Build tabs with Adaptive Cards](how-to/build-adaptive-card-tabs.md)
* [Create deep links](../concepts/build-and-test/deep-links.md)
