---
title: Adaptive Card-based Loop Component
description: In this module, learn how to build and test Adaptive Card-based Loop components for collaborative experiences within Microsoft Teams.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 01/26/2024
---

# Adaptive Card-based Loop components

> [!NOTE]
> Adaptive Card-based Loop components require Adaptive Cards version 1.6 or later.

Adaptive Card-based Loop components enable you to build collaborative experiences within your Microsoft Teams [message extensions](../messaging-extensions/what-are-messaging-extensions.md) that work across Microsoft 365. Adaptive Card-based Loop components have actionable content that enables users to make live updates without having to switch contexts between Microsoft 365 apps, such as Teams and Microsoft Outlook.

Following is an example of an Adaptive Card-based Loop component:

:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/adaptive-cards/adaptive-card-loop.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows an Adaptive Card-based Loop component.":::

## Build Adaptive Card-based Loop component

To build an Adaptive Card-based Loop component, follow these steps:

1. [Build a message extension with a search command](../messaging-extensions/what-are-messaging-extensions.md).

1. Add [link unfurling](../messaging-extensions/how-to/link-unfurling.md) to the message extension.

1. Use [Universal Actions for Adaptive Cards](../task-modules-and-cards/cards/Universal-actions-for-adaptive-cards/Work-with-Universal-Actions-for-Adaptive-Cards.md) and define the `refresh` property to ensure that the card is always up to date. For more information, see [up-to-date cards](../task-modules-and-cards/cards/Universal-actions-for-adaptive-cards/Up-To-Date-Views.md).

1. [Extend your message extension across Microsoft 365](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md).

1. Add the URL that uniquely identifies the card in the [metadata.webUrl](https://adaptivecards.io/explorer/Metadata.html) property in the [Adaptive Card schema](https://adaptivecards.io/explorer/). The `metadata.webUrl` property supports portability through the **Copy component** button :::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/copy-component-button.png" border="false"::: present in the Loop component header.

> [!NOTE]
> Ensure that the Adaptive Card-based Loop component adheres to the [design guidelines](design-loop-components.md) to build an actionable and coherent Adaptive Card-based experience for your users.

### Example

The following JSON payload is an example of an Adaptive Card-based Loop component with the `metadata` and `webUrl` properties:

```json
{
  "type": "AdaptiveCard",
  "version": "1.6",
  "metadata": {
    "webUrl": "https://contoso.com/tab"
  },
  "refresh": {
    "action": {
      "type": "Action.Execute",
      "title": "Submit",
      "verb": "personalDetailsCardRefresh"
    },
    "userIds": []
  },
  "body": [
    {
      ....
    },
  ]
  }
```

### Query parameters

|Property|Type|Description|Required|
|---|---|---|---|
| `metadata`| Metadata | Defines various metadata properties typically not used for rendering the card. | No |
| `webUrl` | String | URL that uniquely identifies the card and serves as a browser fallback that can be used by some hosts. | No |

> [!NOTE]
> When you copy an Adaptive Card-based Loop component, the URL of the Loop component is copied. When you paste the URL in a Teams chat or the Loop app, the link unfurls into the Adaptive Card-based Loop component.

## Test your Loop component

You can test the Loop component in the developer environments of Teams and Outlook for web.

### Test in Microsoft Teams

To configure, distribute, and manage your application, use [Developer Portal for Teams](../concepts/build-and-test/teams-developer-portal.md). You can test and debug your app in Developer Portal using the following options:

* **Overview page**: On the **Overview page**, under **Teams Store validation**, you can see a snapshot of your app's configuration and check if your app package validates against Microsoft Teams Store test cases.
* **Preview in Teams**: The **Preview in Teams** button launches your app quickly in the Teams client for debugging.

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/developer-portal-overview.png" alt-text="A screenshot of the Developer Portal overview page with the Preview in Teams button highlighted. " lightbox="../assets/images/developer-portal-overview.png" :::

### Test in Outlook for web

To turn on the Adaptive Card-based Loop component in Outlook for web, follow these steps:

1. Create a search-based message extension using [Teams App Camp](https://microsoft.github.io/app-camp/).
1. [Create a Microsoft 365 developer tenant](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program) or sign in with your test tenant credentials.

The Adaptive Card generated by your app is rendered as a Loop component.

## Code sample

|**Sample name** | **Description** | **Node.js** | **.NET** | **Manifest** |
|----------------|-----------------|--------------|--------------|--------------|
| Message extension with Adaptive Card-based Loop component | This sample demonstrates how to create a message extension with an Adaptive Card-based Loop component.|[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/msgext-unfurling-ac-loop-components/nodejs)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/msgext-unfurling-ac-loop-components/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/blob/main/samples/msgext-unfurling-ac-loop-components/nodejs/demo-manifest/msgext-unfurling-ac-loop-components.zip) |

## See also

[Design your Loop component](design-loop-components.md)
