msteams-platform/m365-apps/overview.md, before:

---
title: Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365 (preview)
description: Learn how to extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365 (running in Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 as application hosts).
ms.date: 10/10/2022
ms.topic: Conceptual
ms.custom: m365apps
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365

With the latest releases of [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client library](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md) (TeamsJS version 2.0.0 and later), [Teams App manifest](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) (version 1.13 and later), and [Teams Toolkit](../toolkit/visual-studio-code-overview.md), you can build and update Teams apps to run in other high-usage Microsoft 365 products and publish them to the Microsoft commercial marketplace ([Microsoft AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)) or your organization's private app store.

Extending your Teams app across Microsoft 365 provides a streamlined way to deliver cross-platform apps to an expanded user audience: from a single codebase, you can create app experiences tailored for Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 app environments. End users won't have to leave the context of their work to use your app, and administrators benefit from a consolidated management and deployment workflow.

The Teams app platform continues to evolve and expand holistically into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem. Here's the current support of Teams app platform elements across Microsoft 365 (Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 as application hosts):

| Teams app features| App manifest element | Teams support |Outlook* support | Microsoft 365 app* support | Notes |
|--|--|--|--|--|--|
| [**Tabs-personal scope**](../tabs/how-to/create-personal-tab.md)     |`staticTabs`  | Web, Desktop, Mobile | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel) | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel),  Mobile (Android)| Channel and group scope not yet supported for Microsoft 365. See [notes](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md#microsoft-365-support-running-teams-apps-in-office-and-outlook).
| [**Message extensions-search-based**](../messaging-extensions/how-to/search-commands/define-search-command.md)| `composeExtensions` | Web, Desktop, Mobile| Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel)| - |Action-based not yet supported for Microsoft 365. See [notes](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md#troubleshooting). |
| link unfurling | `composeExtensions.messageHandlers` | Web, Desktop | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel) | - | See [notes](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md#link-unfurling) |
| [**Office Add-ins**](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/json-manifest-overview) (preview) | `extensions` | - | Web, Desktop | - | Only available in [devPreview](../resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md) manifest version. See [notes](#office-add-ins-preview).|

\* The [Microsoft 365 Targeted release](/microsoft-365/admin/manage/release-options-in-office-365) option and [Microsoft 365 Apps update channel](/deployoffice/change-update-channels) enrollment require admin opt-in for the entire organization or selected users. For more information, see [Manage access to Teams apps across Microsoft 365](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps) Update channels are device specific and apply only to installations of Microsoft 365 running on Windows.

For guidance about the Teams app manifest and TeamsJS versioning guidance, and further details about current Teams platform capability support across Microsoft 365, see the [Teams JavaScript client library overview](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md).

> [!NOTE]
> We welcome your feedback and issue reporting as you expand Teams apps to run across the Microsoft 365 ecosystem! Please use the regular [Microsoft Teams developer community channels](/microsoftteams/platform/feedback) to send feedback.

## Personal tabs and messaging extensions in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app

Reach your users where they are, right in the context of their work by extending your web app as a [Teams personal tab](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md) application that also runs in both Outlook and Microsoft 365 app. Teams personal tabs built and hosted with [SharePoint Framework](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md#sharepoint-framework-spfx-apps) (SPFx) version 1.16 and later are also supported in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-office-teams-personal-tab.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Personal tab running in Outlook, Microsoft 365, and Teams.":::

On mobile, you can test and debug your Teams personal tab running on [Microsoft 365 app for Android](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md#microsoft-365-app-for-android).

:::image type="content" source="images/office-mobile-personal-tab.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows personal tab running in Microsoft 365.":::

You can also extend your search-based [Teams message extensions](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md) to Outlook on the web and Windows desktop, enabling your customers to search and share results through the compose message area of Outlook, in addition to Microsoft Teams clients.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-teams-messaging-ext.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Message extension running in Outlook and Teams.":::

Link unfurling works in Outlook web and Windows environments the same way it does in Microsoft Teams without any further work than using Teams app manifest version 1.13 or later.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-teams-link-unfurling.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Link unfurling running in Outlook and Teams.":::

Build your app with the latest [Teams app manifest](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) and [Teams JavaScript client library](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md) to benefit the latest consolidated Microsoft 365 app development process. Then deliver a streamlined deployment, installation, and admin experience for your customers that expands the reach and usage of your app.

## Use Teams app manifest across Microsoft 365

With an aim toward simplifying and streamlining the Microsoft 365 developer ecosystem, we're continuing to expand the Teams app manifest into other areas of Microsoft 365 with the following.

### Office Add-ins (preview)

You can now define and deploy Office Add-ins in the [developer preview version](../resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md) of the Microsoft Teams app manifest. Currently, this preview is limited to Outlook Add-ins running on subscription Microsoft 365 app for Windows.

For more information, see [Teams manifest for Office Add-ins (preview)](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/json-manifest-overview).

## Microsoft commercial marketplace submission

Join the growing number of production Teams apps in the [Microsoft commercial marketplace](https://appsource.microsoft.com/) (Microsoft AppSource) store with expanded support for Outlook and Microsoft 365 preview (Targeted Release) audiences. The app [submission process for Teams apps enabled for Outlook and Microsoft 365](../concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/publish.md) is the same as for traditional Teams apps. The only difference is that you'll use Teams app manifest [version 1.13](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md) in your app package, which introduces support for Teams apps that run across Microsoft 365.

After your app is published as a Microsoft 365-enabled Teams app, your app will be discoverable as an installable app in the Outlook and Microsoft 365 app stores, in addition to the Teams store. When running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app, your app uses the same permissions granted in Teams. Teams admins can [manage access to Teams apps across Microsoft 365](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps) for users in their organization.

For more information, see [publish Teams apps for Microsoft 365](publish.md).

## Next step

Set up your dev environment to build Teams apps for Microsoft 365:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Install prerequisites](prerequisites.md)

## See also

[Manage access to the enhanced apps](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps#manage-users-access-to-the-enhanced-apps)

Commit message:

Targeted/Standard release Warning Note (#8079)
* initial

* implement new edit

* content edit

Updated content as per style guide.

---------

Co-authored-by: v-ypalikila <93579821+v-ypalikila@users.noreply.github.com>

msteams-platform/m365-apps/overview.md, after:

---
title: Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365 (preview)
description: Learn how to extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365 (running in Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 as application hosts).
ms.date: 10/10/2022
ms.topic: Conceptual
ms.custom: m365apps
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365

With the latest releases of [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client library](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md) (TeamsJS version 2.0.0 and later), [Teams App manifest](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) (version 1.13 and later), and [Teams Toolkit](../toolkit/visual-studio-code-overview.md), you can build and update Teams apps to run in other high-usage Microsoft 365 products and publish them to the Microsoft commercial marketplace ([Microsoft AppSource](https://appsource.microsoft.com/)) or your organization's private app store.

Extending your Teams app across Microsoft 365 provides a streamlined way to deliver cross-platform apps to an expanded user audience: from a single codebase, you can create app experiences tailored for Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 app environments. End users won't have to leave the context of their work to use your app, and administrators benefit from a consolidated management and deployment workflow.

The Teams app platform continues to evolve and expand holistically into the Microsoft 365 ecosystem. Here's the current support of Teams app platform elements across Microsoft 365 (Teams, Outlook, and Microsoft 365 as application hosts):

| Teams app features| App manifest element | Teams support |Outlook* support | Microsoft 365 app* support | Notes |
|--|--|--|--|--|--|
| [**Tabs-personal scope**](../tabs/how-to/create-personal-tab.md)     |`staticTabs`  | Web, Desktop, Mobile | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel) | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel),  Mobile (Android)| Channel and group scope not yet supported for Microsoft 365. See [notes](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md#microsoft-365-support-running-teams-apps-in-office-and-outlook).
| [**Message extensions-search-based**](../messaging-extensions/how-to/search-commands/define-search-command.md)| `composeExtensions` | Web, Desktop, Mobile| Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel)| - |Action-based not yet supported for Microsoft 365. See [notes](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md#troubleshooting). |
| link unfurling | `composeExtensions.messageHandlers` | Web, Desktop | Web (Targeted Release), Desktop (Beta Channel) | - | See [notes](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md#link-unfurling) |
| [**Office Add-ins**](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/json-manifest-overview) (preview) | `extensions` | - | Web, Desktop | - | Only available in [devPreview](../resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md) manifest version. See [notes](#office-add-ins-preview).|

> [!WARNING]
> After an in-market app on the Teams platform is updated to a new manifest version, users enrolled for Microsoft 365 Targeted Release will lose access to the app. For more information, see [Manage access to Teams apps across Microsoft 365](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps).

Enrollment to [Microsoft 365 Targeted Release](/microsoft-365/admin/manage/release-options-in-office-365) and [Microsoft 365 Apps update channel](/deployoffice/change-update-channels) requires admin opt-in for the entire organization or selected users. For more information, see [Manage access to Teams apps across Microsoft 365](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps). Update channels are device specific and apply only to installations of Microsoft 365 running on Windows.

For guidance about the Teams app manifest and TeamsJS versioning guidance, and further details about current Teams platform capability support across Microsoft 365, see the [Teams JavaScript client library overview](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md).

> [!NOTE]
> We welcome your feedback and issue reporting as you expand Teams apps to run across the Microsoft 365 ecosystem! Please use the regular [Microsoft Teams developer community channels](/microsoftteams/platform/feedback) to send feedback.

## Personal tabs and messaging extensions in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app

Reach your users where they are, right in the context of their work by extending your web app as a [Teams personal tab](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md) application that also runs in both Outlook and Microsoft 365 app. Teams personal tabs built and hosted with [SharePoint Framework](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md#sharepoint-framework-spfx-apps) (SPFx) version 1.16 and later are also supported in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-office-teams-personal-tab.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Personal tab running in Outlook, Microsoft 365, and Teams.":::

On mobile, you can test and debug your Teams personal tab running on [Microsoft 365 app for Android](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md#microsoft-365-app-for-android).

:::image type="content" source="images/office-mobile-personal-tab.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows personal tab running in Microsoft 365.":::

You can also extend your search-based [Teams message extensions](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md) to Outlook on the web and Windows desktop, enabling your customers to search and share results through the compose message area of Outlook, in addition to Microsoft Teams clients.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-teams-messaging-ext.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Message extension running in Outlook and Teams.":::

Link unfurling works in Outlook web and Windows environments the same way it does in Microsoft Teams without any further work than using Teams app manifest version 1.13 or later.

:::image type="content" source="images/outlook-teams-link-unfurling.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows Link unfurling running in Outlook and Teams.":::

Build your app with the latest [Teams app manifest](../resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) and [Teams JavaScript client library](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-library.md) to benefit the latest consolidated Microsoft 365 app development process. Then deliver a streamlined deployment, installation, and admin experience for your customers that expands the reach and usage of your app.

## Use Teams app manifest across Microsoft 365

With an aim toward simplifying and streamlining the Microsoft 365 developer ecosystem, we're continuing to expand the Teams app manifest into other areas of Microsoft 365 with the following.

### Office Add-ins (preview)

You can now define and deploy Office Add-ins in the [developer preview version](../resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md) of the Microsoft Teams app manifest. Currently, this preview is limited to Outlook Add-ins running on subscription Microsoft 365 app for Windows.

For more information, see [Teams manifest for Office Add-ins (preview)](/office/dev/add-ins/develop/json-manifest-overview).

## Microsoft commercial marketplace submission

Join the growing number of production Teams apps in the [Microsoft commercial marketplace](https://appsource.microsoft.com/) (Microsoft AppSource) store with expanded support for Outlook and Microsoft 365 preview (Targeted Release) audiences. The app [submission process for Teams apps enabled for Outlook and Microsoft 365](../concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/publish.md) is the same as for traditional Teams apps. The only difference is that you'll use Teams app manifest [version 1.13](../tabs/how-to/using-teams-client-sdk.md) in your app package, which introduces support for Teams apps that run across Microsoft 365.

After your app is published as a Microsoft 365-enabled Teams app, your app will be discoverable as an installable app in the Outlook and Microsoft 365 app stores, in addition to the Teams store. When running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app, your app uses the same permissions granted in Teams. Teams admins can [manage access to Teams apps across Microsoft 365](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps) for users in their organization.

For more information, see [publish Teams apps for Microsoft 365](publish.md).

## Next step

Set up your dev environment to build Teams apps for Microsoft 365:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Install prerequisites](prerequisites.md)

## See also

[Manage access to the enhanced apps](/microsoftteams/manage-third-party-teams-apps#manage-users-access-to-the-enhanced-apps)
