msteams-platform/m365-apps/prerequisites.md, before:

---
title: Set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365
description: Requirements to set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365. Know configurations required to run builds of Microsoft Teams and Microsoft 365 applications.
ms.date: 02/28/2023
ms.custom: m365apps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
---
# Set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365

The development environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365 is similar to Microsoft Teams development. This article discusses specific configurations required to run preview builds of Microsoft Teams and Microsoft 365 applications in order to preview Teams apps running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

To set up your development environment:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * [Get Microsoft 365 Developer (Sandbox) Tenant and enable sideloading](#prepare-a-developer-tenant-for-testing)
> * [Enroll your Microsoft 365 tenant in Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases*](#enroll-your-developer-tenant-for-microsoft-365-targeted-releases)
> * [Install Beta Channel builds of Microsoft 365 Apps in your test environment](#install-microsoft-365-apps-in-your-test-environment)
> * [*Optional*] [Install Teams Toolkit extension for Microsoft Visual Studio Code](#install-visual-studio-code-and-teams-toolkit-extension)

## Prepare a Developer Tenant for testing

You need a Microsoft 365 developer subscription sandbox tenant to set up your dev environment. If you don't already have one, create a [sandbox tenant](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program-get-started) or get a test tenant through your organization.

> [!NOTE]
> As you set up for testing, ensure that you sign out of all other accounts and sign in with the account you intend to use for testing.

You also need to enable sideloading for your tenant:

 1. Sign in to [Teams admin center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/dashboard) with your test tenant credentials.

 1. Go to **Teams apps** > **Manage apps**.

 1. At the top right, select **Org-wide app settings**.

 1. Under Custom apps, turn on the **Interaction with custom apps** toggle and **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="images/teams-admin-enable-sideloading.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that enables sideloading for custom apps from the Teams Admin Center":::

 1. Apart from Org-wide app settings, custom app policy settings also allow users to upload custom apps to Teams. For more information, see [manage custom app policies and settings](/microsoftteams/teams-custom-app-policies-and-settings#custom-app-policy-and-settings).

 1. In the Teams admin center, go to **Teams apps** > **Setup policies**, and then select **Global (Org-wide default) policy**.

 1. Turn on **Upload custom apps**, and select **Save**.

## Enroll your developer tenant for Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases

> [!IMPORTANT]
> It can take up to five days after creating a [Microsoft 365 developer sandbox tenant](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program-get-started) and enrolling in [Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases](#enroll-your-developer-tenant-for-microsoft-365-targeted-releases) for sideloaded Teams apps to appear in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

This step is required to preview your Teams app running in Outlook (desktop and web); the Microsoft 365 app (desktop and web) supports Teams tab apps in both Standard and Targeted release channels. To enroll your test tenant for Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases:

1. Sign in to [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com) with your test tenant credentials.
1. Go to **Settings** > **Org Settings** > **Organization profile**.
1. Select **Release preferences**.
1. Select any *Targeted Release* preference:
    1. **Targeted Release for everyone**
    1. **Targeted Release for select users**

    :::image type="content" source="images/m365-admin-center-targeted-releases.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows the Microsoft 365 admin center 'Release preferences' menu with Targeted Release option selected.":::

1. Select **Save**.

For more information on Microsoft 365 release options, see [set up the Standard or Targeted Release options](/microsoft-365/admin/manage/release-options-in-office-365?view=o365-worldwide&preserve-view=true#targeted-release) in *Microsoft 365 admin center help*.

## Install Microsoft 365 apps in your test environment

### Desktop

You can preview Teams apps running in Outlook on Windows desktop by using a recent *Beta Channel build*. Check if you have to [change the Microsoft 365 Apps update channel](/deployoffice/change-update-channels?WT.mc_id=M365-MVP-5002016) for your test tenant to install a Microsoft 365 Beta Channel build.

To install Microsoft 365 Beta Channel applications in your test environment:

1. Sign in to your test environment with your test tenant credentials.
1. Download and run the [Office Deployment Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=49117).
1. Select a local folder to store the extracted files.
1. Go to the local folder and open *configuration-Office365-x86.xml* (or **x64.xml*, depending on your environment) in a text editor and update the *Channel* value to `BetaChannel`.
1. Open Command Prompt and go to the local folder path.
1. Run `setup.exe /configure configuration-Office365-x86.xml` (or use the **x64.xml* file, depending on your setup).
1. Open Outlook (desktop client) and set up the mail account using your test tenant credentials.
1. Open **File** > **Office Account** > **About Outlook** to confirm you're running a Microsoft 365 *Beta Channel* build of Outlook.

    :::image type="content" source="images/outlook-about-beta-channel.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows about Outlook to verify that you're running a Beta Channel build.":::

1. Verify that *Microsoft Edge WebView2 Runtime* is installed. Open Windows **Start** > **Apps & features**, and search for **webview**:

    :::image type="content" source="images/windows-addremove-webview2.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows the search field in your Windows settings.":::

    If it's not listed, install [Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/) to your test environment.

### Mobile

#### Android

Install the Microsoft 365 app to preview your Teams personal tab app running on your physical Android device or Android emulator:

1. Ensure you're using a Google Play [supported Android device](https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/1727131).
1. Launch the **Play Store** on your Android device.
1. Search for a supported host for running Teams apps:
    1. For Microsoft 365 app (formerly Office), search office and select *Microsoft 365 app*.
    1. For Outlook, search outlook and select *Microsoft Outlook*.
1. Select the **Install** button.

    :::image type="content" source="images/office-android-install.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows the install button for the Office (Microsoft 365) app in Google Play Store.":::

1. Launch the Microsoft 365 app and sign in with your test tenant credentials.
1. Open your profile **(Me) > Settings** and scroll to the bottom of the menu.
1. Ensure that you use Microsoft 365 app version 16.0.15726.20000 or later and Outlook app version 4.2247.1 (52247812) or later for Android.

#### iOS

You can preview Teams personal tabs running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app for iOS by installing the prerelease version on the [TestFlight app](https://testflight.apple.com/) on your iOS device.

1. To access the preview version on TestFlight, please reach out to the product group through your CSAM/Account Manager for an Invitation.
1. Install the TestFlight app from the **App Store** on your testing device of choice.
1. Open your email invitation, accept the email invitation, or follow the public link invitation to install the beta app.
1. Launch the Outlook app and sign in with your test tenant credentials.
1. Open your profile **(Me) > Settings** and scroll to the bottom of the menu.
1. Ensure that you use Microsoft 365 app version 2.72.23030700 or later and Outlook app version 4.2310.0 (18999702) or later for iOS.

## Install Visual Studio Code and Teams Toolkit extension

Optionally, you can use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to extend Teams apps into Microsoft 365 and Outlook.

The extension [Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://aka.ms/teams-toolkit) (`v2.10.0` or later) provides commands that can help modify your existing Teams code to be compatible with Outlook and Microsoft 365. For more information, see [enable Teams personal tab for Microsoft 365 and Outlook](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md).

## Next step

Create or update a Teams app to run across Microsoft 365:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable a Teams personal tab for Microsoft 365 and Outlook](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md)
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable a Teams message extension for Outlook](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md)

## See also

[Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365](overview.md)

Commit message:

[Doc Improvement] [Remove Targeted Release from Prereq] (#8678)
* initial

* modify additional verbiage - the [value] placeholder is to be filled later

* update [value]-> Current, restore some cut verbiage

* address warnings + modify image alt txt + modify image

* remove preview from overview + address warnings

* update image name

* update image name in file

* minor edit

* Acrolinx fixes

* minor edit

* .

* .

* Update overview.md

added tab close tag.

---------

Co-authored-by: v-preethah <v-preethah@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: v-ypalikila <93579821+v-ypalikila@users.noreply.github.com>

msteams-platform/m365-apps/prerequisites.md, after:

---
title: Set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365
description: Requirements to set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365. Know configurations required to run builds of Microsoft Teams and Microsoft 365 applications.
ms.date: 02/28/2023
ms.custom: m365apps
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
---
# Set up your dev environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365

The development environment for extending Teams apps across Microsoft 365 is similar to Microsoft Teams development. This article discusses specific configurations required to run preview builds of Microsoft Teams and Microsoft 365 applications in order to preview Teams apps running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

To set up your development environment:

> [!div class="checklist"]
>
> * [Get Microsoft 365 Developer (Sandbox) Tenant and enable sideloading](#prepare-a-developer-tenant-for-testing)
> * [Install Microsoft 365 Apps in your test environment](#install-microsoft-365-apps-in-your-test-environment)
> * [*Optional*] [Enroll your Microsoft 365 tenant in Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases](#enroll-your-developer-tenant-for-microsoft-365-targeted-releases-optional)
> * [*Optional*] [Install Beta Channel builds of Microsoft 365 Apps in your test environment](#install-microsoft-365-apps-in-your-test-environment)
> * [*Optional*] [Install Teams Toolkit extension for Microsoft Visual Studio Code](#install-visual-studio-code-and-teams-toolkit-extension)

## Prepare a Developer Tenant for testing

You need a Microsoft 365 developer subscription sandbox tenant to set up your dev environment. If you don't already have one, create a [sandbox tenant](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program-get-started) or get a test tenant through your organization.

> [!NOTE]
> As you set up for testing, ensure that you sign out of all other accounts and sign in with the account you intend to use for testing.

You also need to enable sideloading for your tenant:

 1. Sign in to [Teams admin center](https://admin.teams.microsoft.com/dashboard) with your test tenant credentials.

 1. Go to **Teams apps** > **Manage apps**.

 1. At the top right, select **Org-wide app settings**.

 1. Under Custom apps, turn on the **Interaction with custom apps** toggle and **Save**.

    :::image type="content" source="images/teams-admin-enable-sideloading.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that enables sideloading for custom apps from the Teams Admin Center":::

 1. Apart from Org-wide app settings, custom app policy settings also allow users to upload custom apps to Teams. For more information, see [manage custom app policies and settings](/microsoftteams/teams-custom-app-policies-and-settings#custom-app-policy-and-settings).

 1. In the Teams admin center, go to **Teams apps** > **Setup policies**, and then select **Global (Org-wide default) policy**.

 1. Turn on **Upload custom apps**, and select **Save**.

## Enroll your developer tenant for Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases (Optional)

> [!NOTE]
> It can take up to five days after creating a [Microsoft 365 developer sandbox tenant](/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program-get-started) and enrolling in [Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases](#enroll-your-developer-tenant-for-microsoft-365-targeted-releases-optional) for sideloaded Teams apps to appear in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app.

This section is optional and only required for any features in **preview**, as listed in [Teams apps across Microsoft 365](overview.md) app element support table. To enroll your test tenant for Microsoft 365 Targeted Releases:

1. Sign in to [Microsoft 365 admin center](https://admin.microsoft.com) with your test tenant credentials.
1. Go to **Settings** > **Org Settings** > **Organization profile**.
1. Select **Release preferences**.
1. Select any *Targeted Release* preference:
    1. **Targeted Release for everyone**
    1. **Targeted Release for select users**

    :::image type="content" source="images/m365-admin-center-targeted-releases.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows the Microsoft 365 admin center 'Release preferences' menu with Targeted Release option selected.":::

1. Select **Save**.

For more information on Microsoft 365 release options, see [set up the Standard or Targeted Release options](/microsoft-365/admin/manage/release-options-in-office-365?view=o365-worldwide&preserve-view=true#targeted-release) in *Microsoft 365 admin center help*.

## Install Microsoft 365 apps in your test environment

### Desktop

You can preview Teams apps running in Outlook on Windows desktop by using a recent *Current Channel build*. Check if you have to [change the Microsoft 365 Apps update channel](/deployoffice/change-update-channels?WT.mc_id=M365-MVP-5002016) for your test tenant to install a Microsoft 365 Current Channel build.

To install Microsoft 365 applications in your test environment:

1. Sign in to your test environment with your test tenant credentials.
1. Download and run the [Office Deployment Tool](https://www.microsoft.com/download/details.aspx?id=49117).
1. Select a local folder to store the extracted files.
1. Go to the local folder and open *configuration-Office365-x86.xml* (or **x64.xml*, depending on your environment) in a text editor and ensure the *Channel* value is `Current`.
1. Open Command Prompt and go to the local folder path.
1. Run `setup.exe /configure configuration-Office365-x86.xml` (or use the **x64.xml* file, depending on your setup).
1. Open Outlook (desktop client) and set up the mail account using your test tenant credentials.
1. Open **File** > **Office Account** > **About Outlook** to confirm you're running a Microsoft 365 *Current Channel* build of Outlook.

    :::image type="content" source="images/outlook-about-current-channel.png" alt-text="The screenshot shows where to verify you're running a Current Channel build in Outlook.":::

1. Verify that *Microsoft Edge WebView2 Runtime* is installed. Open Windows **Start** > **Apps & features**, and search for **webview**:

    :::image type="content" source="images/windows-addremove-webview2.png" alt-text="The screenshot shows the search field in your Windows settings.":::

    If it's not listed, install [Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/) to your test environment.

### Mobile

#### Android

Install the Microsoft 365 app to preview your Teams personal tab app running on your physical Android device or Android emulator:

1. Ensure you're using a Google Play [supported Android device](https://support.google.com/googleplay/answer/1727131).
1. Launch the **Play Store** on your Android device.
1. Search for a supported host for running Teams apps:
    1. For Microsoft 365 app (formerly Office), search office and select *Microsoft 365 app*.
    1. For Outlook, search outlook and select *Microsoft Outlook*.
1. Select the **Install** button.

    :::image type="content" source="images/office-android-install.png" alt-text="The screenshot is an example that shows the install button for the Office (Microsoft 365) app in Google Play Store.":::

1. Launch the Microsoft 365 app and sign in with your test tenant credentials.
1. Open your profile **(Me) > Settings** and scroll to the bottom of the menu.
1. Ensure that you use Microsoft 365 app version 16.0.15726.20000 or later and Outlook app version 4.2247.1 (52247812) or later for Android.

#### iOS

You can preview Teams personal tabs running in Outlook and Microsoft 365 app for iOS by installing the prerelease version on the [TestFlight app](https://testflight.apple.com/) on your iOS device.

1. To access the preview version on TestFlight, please reach out to the product group through your CSAM/Account Manager for an Invitation.
1. Install the TestFlight app from the **App Store** on your testing device of choice.
1. Open your email invitation, accept the email invitation, or follow the public link invitation to install the beta app.
1. Launch the Outlook app and sign in with your test tenant credentials.
1. Open your profile **(Me) > Settings** and scroll to the bottom of the menu.
1. Ensure that you use Microsoft 365 app version 2.72.23030700 or later and Outlook app version 4.2310.0 (18999702) or later for iOS.

## Install Visual Studio Code and Teams Toolkit extension

Optionally, you can use [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to extend Teams apps into Microsoft 365 and Outlook.

The extension [Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code](https://aka.ms/teams-toolkit) (`v2.10.0` or later) provides commands that can help modify your existing Teams code to be compatible with Outlook and Microsoft 365. For more information, see [enable Teams personal tab for Microsoft 365 and Outlook](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md).

## Next step

Create or update a Teams app to run across Microsoft 365:

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable a Teams personal tab for Microsoft 365 and Outlook](extend-m365-teams-personal-tab.md)
> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Enable a Teams message extension for Outlook](extend-m365-teams-message-extension.md)

## See also

[Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365](overview.md)
