msteams-platform/bots/calls-and-meetings/call-notifications.md, before:

---
title: Technical details on handling incoming call notifications
description: Detailed technical information on handling notifications from incoming calls
keywords: calling calls notifications callback region affinity
ms.date: 04/02/2019
---

# Incoming call notifications: technical details

In [Registering a calling and meeting bot for Microsoft Teams](./registering-calling-bot.md#creating-a-new-bot-or-adding-calling-capabilities-to-an-existing-bot), we mentioned the **Webhook (for calling)** URL — the webhook endpoint for all incoming calls to your bot. This topic discusses the technical details you'll need to respond to these notifications.

## Protocol determination

The incoming notification is provided in legacy format for compatibility with the previous [Skype protocol](/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-real-time-media-concepts?view=azure-bot-service-3.0). In order to convert the call to the Microsoft Graph protocol, your bot must determine whether the notification is in legacy format and reply with:

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

Your bot will receive the notification again, but this time in the Microsoft Graph protocol.

In a future release of the Real-time Media Platform, we'll allow you to configure the protocol your application supports to avoid receiving the initial callback in the legacy format.

## Redirects for region affinity

You'll call your webhook from the data-center hosting the call. The call may start in any data center and doesn't take into account region affinities. The notification will be sent to your deployment depending on the GeoDNS resolution. If your application determines, by inspecting the initial notification payload or otherwise, that it needs to run in a different deployment, the application may reply with:

```http
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: your-new-location
```

Enable your bot to answer an incoming call using the [answer](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/docs/api-reference/beta/api/call_answer) API. You can specify the `callbackUri` to handle this particular call. This is useful for _stateful_ instances where your call is handled by a particular partition and you want to embed this information in the `callbackUri` for routing to the right instance.

## Authenticating the callback

Your bot should inspect the token posted to your webhook to validate the request. Whenever the API posts to the webhook, the HTTP POST message contains an OAuth token in the Authorization header as a Bearer token, with audience as your application's App ID.

Your application should validate this token before accepting the callback request.

```http
POST https://bot.contoso.com/api/calls
Content-Type: application/json
Authentication: Bearer <TOKEN>

"value": [
    "subscriptionId": "2887CEE8344B47C291F1AF628599A93C",
    "subscriptionExpirationDateTime": "2016-11-20T18:23:45.9356913Z",
    "changeType": "updated",
    "resource": "/app/calls/8A934F51F25B4EE19613D4049491857B",
    "resourceData": {
        "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.call",
        "state": "Established"
    }
]
```

The OAuth token will have values like the following, and will be signed by Skype. The OpenID configuration published at <https://api.aps.skype.com/v1/.well-known/OpenIdConfiguration> can be used to verify the token.

```json
{
    "aud": "0efc74f7-41c3-47a4-8775-7259bfef4241",
    "iss": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "iat": 1466741440,
    "nbf": 1466741440,
    "exp": 1466745340,
    "tid": "1fdd12d0-4620-44ed-baec-459b611f84b2"
}
```

* **aud** audience is the App ID URI specified for the application.
* **tid** is the tenant id for Contoso.com.
* **iss** is the token issuer, `https://api.botframework.com`.

Your code handling the webhook should validate the token, ensure it hasn't expired, and check whether it has been signed by our published OpenID configuration. You should also check whether **aud** matches your App ID before accepting the callback request.

[Sample](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/blob/master/Samples/Common/Sample.Common/Authentication/AuthenticationProvider.cs) shows how to validate inbound requests.

Commit message:

Updated registering calling bot, call notifications, requirements and considerations, and team chat member api changes
Updated registering calling bot, call notifications, requirements and considerations, and team chat member api changes for grammar and language changes

msteams-platform/bots/calls-and-meetings/call-notifications.md, after:

---
title: Incoming call notifications
description: Detailed technical information on handling notifications from incoming calls
keywords: calling calls notifications callback region affinity
ms.date: 04/02/2019
---

# Incoming call notifications

In [registering a calls and meetings bot for Microsoft Teams](./registering-calling-bot.md#create-new-bot-or-add-calling-capabilities), the **Webhook (for calling)** URL is mentioned. This URL is the webhook endpoint for all incoming calls to your bot. This document discusses the technical details required to respond to incoming call notifications and covers the following:

* [Protocol determination](#protocol-determination)
* [Redirects for region affinity](#redirects-for-region-affinity)
* [Authenticate the callback](#authenticate-the-callback)

## Protocol determination

The incoming notification is provided in legacy format for compatibility with the previous [Skype protocol](/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-real-time-media-concepts?view=azure-bot-service-3.0). In order to convert the call to the Microsoft Graph protocol, your bot must determine whether the notification is in legacy format and reply with the following:

```http
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

Your bot receives the notification again, but this time in the Microsoft Graph protocol.

In a future release of the Real-time Media Platform, you can configure the protocol your application supports to avoid receiving the initial callback in the legacy format.

The next section provides details on incoming call notifications redirected for region affinity to your deployment.

## Redirects for region affinity

You call your webhook from the data-center hosting the call. The call starts in any data center and does not take into account region affinities. The notification is sent to your deployment depending on the GeoDNS resolution. If your application determines, by inspecting the initial notification payload or otherwise, that it needs to run in a different deployment, the application replies with the following:

```http
HTTP/1.1 302 Found
Location: your-new-location
```

Enable your bot to answer an incoming call using the [answer](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/docs/api-reference/beta/api/call_answer) API. You can specify the `callbackUri` to handle this particular call. This is useful for stateful instances where your call is handled by a particular partition and you want to embed this information in the `callbackUri` for routing to the right instance.

The next section provides details on authenticating the callback by inspecting the token posted to your webhook.

## Authenticate the callback

Your bot must inspect the token posted to your webhook to validate the request. Every time the API posts to the webhook, the HTTP POST message contains an OAuth token in the Authorization header as a bearer token, with audience as your application's App ID.

Your application must validate this token before accepting the callback request.

```http
POST https://bot.contoso.com/api/calls
Content-Type: application/json
Authentication: Bearer <TOKEN>

"value": [
    "subscriptionId": "2887CEE8344B47C291F1AF628599A93C",
    "subscriptionExpirationDateTime": "2016-11-20T18:23:45.9356913Z",
    "changeType": "updated",
    "resource": "/app/calls/8A934F51F25B4EE19613D4049491857B",
    "resourceData": {
        "@odata.type": "#microsoft.graph.call",
        "state": "Established"
    }
]
```

The OAuth token has the following values, and is signed by Skype:

```json
{
    "aud": "0efc74f7-41c3-47a4-8775-7259bfef4241",
    "iss": "https://api.botframework.com",
    "iat": 1466741440,
    "nbf": 1466741440,
    "exp": 1466745340,
    "tid": "1fdd12d0-4620-44ed-baec-459b611f84b2"
}
```

The OpenID configuration published at <https://api.aps.skype.com/v1/.well-known/OpenIdConfiguration> can be used to verify the token. Each of the OAuth token values are used as follows:

* **aud** audience is the App ID URI specified for the application.
* **tid** is the tenant id for Contoso.com.
* **iss** is the token issuer, `https://api.botframework.com`.

Your code handling the webhook must validate the token, ensure it has not expired, and check whether it has been signed by our published OpenID configuration. You must also check whether **aud** matches your App ID before accepting the callback request.

For more information, see [validate inbound requests](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/blob/master/Samples/Common/Sample.Common/Authentication/AuthenticationProvider.cs).

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Requirements and considerations for application-hosted media bots](~/bots/calls-and-meetings/requirements-considerations-application-hosted-media-bots.md)
