msteams-platform/bots/calls-and-meetings/requirements-considerations-application-hosted-media-bots.md, before:

---
title: Requirements and considerations for application-hosted media bots
description: Understand important requirements and considerations related to creating application-hosted media bots for Microsoft Teams.
ms.topic: conceptual
keywords: application-hosted media windows server azure vm
ms.date: 11/16/2018
---

# Requirements and considerations for application-hosted media bots

An application-hosted media bot requires the [`Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` .NET library](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media/) to access the audio and video media streams, and the bot must be deployed on a Windows Server machine or Windows Server guest Operating System (OS) in Azure.

This document describes important requirements and considerations for developing and running an application-hosted media bot.

> [!NOTE]
> * The guidance for developing messaging and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) bots does not completely apply to building application-hosted media bots.
> * As the Microsoft Real-time Media Platform for bots is in developer preview, the guidance in this document is subject to change.

## C# or .NET and Windows Server for development

An application-hosted media bot requires the following:

- It must be developed in C# and the standard .NET Framework and deployed in Microsoft Azure. You cannot use C++ or Node.js APIs to access real-time media and .NET Core is not supported for an application-hosted media bot.

- It can be hosted within one of the following Azure service environments:
    - Cloud Service.
    - Service Fabric with Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS).
    - Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Virtual Machine (VM).  
  
- It cannot be deployed as an Azure web app.

- It must be running on a recent version of the `Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` .NET library. The bot must use either the newest available version of the [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media/), or a version that is not more than three months old. Older versions of the library are deprecated and do not work after a few months. Keeping the `Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` library up-to-date ensures the best interoperability between the bot and Microsoft Teams.

## Real-time media calls stay where they are created

Real-time media calls stay on the machine where they were created. A real-time media call is pinned to the virtual machine (VM) instance that accepted or started the call. Media from a Microsoft Teams call or meeting flows to that VM instance, and media the bot sends back to Microsoft Teams must also originate from that VM. If there are any real-time media calls in progress when the VM is stopped, those calls are abruptly terminated. If the bot has prior knowledge of the pending VM shutdown, it can gracefully end the calls.

## Application-hosted media bots accessible on the internet

Application-hosted media bots must be directly accessible on the internet. These bots must include the following features:

- Each VM instance hosting an application-hosted media bot in Azure must be directly accessible from the internet using an instance-level public IP address (ILPIP).
    - For obtaining and configuring an ILPIP for an Azure Cloud Service, see [instance level public IP classic overview](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-instance-level-public-ip).
    - For configuring an ILPIP for a VM Scale Set, see [public IPv4 per virtual machine](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-networking#public-ipv4-per-virtual-machine).
- The service hosting an application-hosted media bot must also configure each VM instance with a public-facing port which maps to the specific instance.
    - For an Azure Cloud Service, this requires an instance input endpoint. For more information, see [enable communication for role instances in Azure](/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-enable-communication-role-instances).
    - For a VM Scale Set, a NAT rule on the load balancer must be configured. For more information, see [virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/network-overview).
- Application-hosted media bots are not supported by the Bot Framework Emulator.

## Scalability and performance considerations

Application-hosted media bots require the following scalability and performance considerations:

- The bots require more compute and network bandwidth capacity than messaging bots and incur significantly higher operational costs. A real-time media bot developer must carefully measure the bot's scalability, and ensure the bot does not accept more simultaneous calls than it can manage. A video-enabled bot can sustain only one or two concurrent media sessions per CPU core if using the raw RGB24 or NV12 video formats.
- The Real-time Media Platform does not currently take advantage of any Graphics Processing Units (GPU) available on the VM to off-load H.264 video encoding or decoding. Instead, video encode and decode are done in software on the CPU. If a GPU is available, the bot takes advantage of it for its own graphics rendering, for example, if the bot is using a 3D graphics engine.
- The VM instance hosting the real-time media bot must have at least 2 CPU cores. For Azure, a Dv2-series virtual machine is recommended. For other Azure VM types, a system with 4 virtual CPUs (vCPU) is the minimum size required. For more information about Azure VM types, se [Azure documentation](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/sizes-general).

## Samples and additional resources

- [Sample applications](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/tree/master/Samples/V1.0Samples/LocalMediaSamples)
- [Graph Calling SDK Documentation](https://microsoftgraph.github.io/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/docs/)

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Supported media formats](~/resources/media-formats.md)

Commit message:

Updated requirements considerations application hosted media bots
Added reference to document contents and flow connections

msteams-platform/bots/calls-and-meetings/requirements-considerations-application-hosted-media-bots.md, after:

---
title: Requirements and considerations for application-hosted media bots
description: Understand important requirements and considerations related to creating application-hosted media bots for Microsoft Teams.
ms.topic: conceptual
keywords: application-hosted media windows server azure vm
ms.date: 11/16/2018
---

# Requirements and considerations for application-hosted media bots

An application-hosted media bot requires the [`Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` .NET library](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media/) to access the audio and video media streams, and the bot must be deployed on a Windows Server machine or Windows Server guest Operating System (OS) in Azure.

This document describes important requirements and considerations for developing and running an application-hosted media bot. This document covers the following:

* C# or .NET and Windows Server for development
* Real-time media calls stay where they are created
* Application-hosted media bots accessible on the internet
* Scalability and performance considerations
* Samples and additional resources

> [!NOTE]
> * The guidance for developing messaging and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) bots does not completely apply to building application-hosted media bots.
> * As the Microsoft Real-time Media Platform for bots is in developer preview, the guidance in this document is subject to change.

## C# or .NET and Windows Server for development

An application-hosted media bot requires the following:

- It must be developed in C# and the standard .NET Framework and deployed in Microsoft Azure. You cannot use C++ or Node.js APIs to access real-time media and .NET Core is not supported for an application-hosted media bot.

- It can be hosted within one of the following Azure service environments:
    - Cloud Service.
    - Service Fabric with Virtual Machine Scale Sets (VMSS).
    - Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) Virtual Machine (VM).  
  
- It cannot be deployed as an Azure web app.

- It must be running on a recent version of the `Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` .NET library. The bot must use either the newest available version of the [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media/), or a version that is not more than three months old. Older versions of the library are deprecated and do not work after a few months. Keeping the `Microsoft.Graph.Communications.Calls.Media` library up-to-date ensures the best interoperability between the bot and Microsoft Teams.

The next section provides details on where real-time media calls are located.

## Real-time media calls stay where they are created

Real-time media calls stay on the machine where they were created. A real-time media call is pinned to the virtual machine (VM) instance that accepted or started the call. Media from a Microsoft Teams call or meeting flows to that VM instance, and media the bot sends back to Microsoft Teams must also originate from that VM. If there are any real-time media calls in progress when the VM is stopped, those calls are abruptly terminated. If the bot has prior knowledge of the pending VM shutdown, it can gracefully end the calls.

The next section provides details on accessibility of application-hosted media bots.

## Application-hosted media bots accessible on the internet

Application-hosted media bots must be directly accessible on the internet. These bots must include the following features:

- Each VM instance hosting an application-hosted media bot in Azure must be directly accessible from the internet using an instance-level public IP address (ILPIP).
    - For obtaining and configuring an ILPIP for an Azure Cloud Service, see [instance level public IP classic overview](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-instance-level-public-ip).
    - For configuring an ILPIP for a VM Scale Set, see [public IPv4 per virtual machine](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-networking#public-ipv4-per-virtual-machine).
- The service hosting an application-hosted media bot must also configure each VM instance with a public-facing port which maps to the specific instance.
    - For an Azure Cloud Service, this requires an instance input endpoint. For more information, see [enable communication for role instances in Azure](/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-enable-communication-role-instances).
    - For a VM Scale Set, a NAT rule on the load balancer must be configured. For more information, see [virtual networks and virtual machines in Azure](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/network-overview).
- Application-hosted media bots are not supported by the Bot Framework Emulator.

The next section provides details on scalability and performance considerations of application-hosted media bots.

## Scalability and performance considerations

Application-hosted media bots require the following scalability and performance considerations:

- The bots require more compute and network bandwidth capacity than messaging bots and incur significantly higher operational costs. A real-time media bot developer must carefully measure the bot's scalability, and ensure the bot does not accept more simultaneous calls than it can manage. A video-enabled bot can sustain only one or two concurrent media sessions per CPU core if using the raw RGB24 or NV12 video formats.
- The Real-time Media Platform does not currently take advantage of any Graphics Processing Units (GPU) available on the VM to off-load H.264 video encoding or decoding. Instead, video encode and decode are done in software on the CPU. If a GPU is available, the bot takes advantage of it for its own graphics rendering, for example, if the bot is using a 3D graphics engine.
- The VM instance hosting the real-time media bot must have at least 2 CPU cores. For Azure, a Dv2-series virtual machine is recommended. For other Azure VM types, a system with 4 virtual CPUs (vCPU) is the minimum size required. For more information about Azure VM types, se [Azure documentation](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/sizes-general).

The next section provides samples that illustrate different local media scenarios.

## Samples and additional resources

- [Sample applications](https://github.com/microsoftgraph/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/tree/master/Samples/V1.0Samples/LocalMediaSamples)
- [Graph calling SDK documentation](https://microsoftgraph.github.io/microsoft-graph-comms-samples/docs/)

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Supported media formats](~/resources/media-formats.md)
