msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/monetize-overview.md, before:

---
title: Monetize your app overview
description: Monetize your app. Supported pricing models are free trials, in-app purchases, and include a SaaS offer with your app.
author: v-npaladugu
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: high 
---

# Monetize your app

Microsoft Teams app Store provides features that enable you to monetize your apps and gain customers by engaging with your users. The topics in this section show you how to build these features into your app.

## Choose a pricing model

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-charge-price.png" alt-text="Charge a price for your app":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Include a SaaS offer with your app**

With a transactable [Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offer](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/include-saas-offer.md), you can monetize your Teams app by selling subscription plans directly from your Teams store listing.

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

:::row:::
    :::column:::
     :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-free-trial.png" alt-text="Free trials":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Free trials**

You can offer a free trial version of your app to get more customers to try it. To entice customers to buy the full version, you can limit the features in the trial version (for example, only including limited number of responses for a week) or specify a time period for the trial.

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::
:::row:::
    :::column:::
        ![In-app purchases](~/assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-in-app-purchases.png)
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**In-app purchases**

Whether you charge a price for your app or offer it for free, you can use in-app purchases in your app to provide an ongoing revenue stream. Use in-app purchases to let customers upgrade from a free to a paid version of your app.

[Use in-app purchases](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/in-app-purchase-flow.md)
    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::
:::row:::
    :::column:::
        :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/apps-in-meetings/test-preview-monetize-app-image.png" alt-text="Test preview SaaS offer":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Test preview for monetized app**

With a transactable Software as a Service (SaaS) offer, you can test the end-to-end purchase experience for your monetized apps in Teams before you publish.

[Test preview for monetized apps](Test-preview-for-monetized-apps.md)

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

## Next step

* [Include a SaaS offer with your Microsoft Teams app](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/include-saas-offer.md)
* [Microsoft Teams store validation guidelines](teams-store-validation-guidelines.md)

Commit message:

[Doc Feature][Update manage third-party app license add][2981505] (#7510)
* update-manage-third-party-app-license

added the information removed from PR 7503.

* added information

Added information on Manage license for third party apps in Teams.

* Adding content

* Adding content

* Minor edits

* Minor edits

* updates

updated formatting.

* text updated

* Update include-saas-offer.md

* Update include-saas-offer.md

* New article

Created a new article for Manage license for third party apps in Teams. Updated Toc.

* content update

Fixed Acrolinx suggestions.

* New article

Added new article on End-user purchase experience

* Update

Fixed Acrolinx Error.

* update

minor edit.

* updated

Minor updates

* updated TOC

Update the article Title names in the TOC.

* updated TOC

updated.

* content edits

minor edits

* updated title

Updated Title.

* minor update.

minor update

* Update manage-third-party-apps-license.md

updated as suggested.

* updated

minor update

* minor update

minor update

---------

Co-authored-by: v-vanv <v-vanv@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: sindhu <v-silakshmi@microsoft.com>

msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/monetize-overview.md, after:

---
title: Monetize your app overview
description: Monetize your app. Supported pricing models are free trials, in-app purchases, and include a SaaS offer with your app.
author: v-npaladugu
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: high 
---

# Monetize your app

Microsoft Teams app Store provides features that enable you to monetize your apps and gain customers by engaging with your users. The topics in this section show you how to build these features into your app.

## Choose a pricing model

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-charge-price.png" alt-text="Charge a price for your app":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Include a SaaS offer with your app**

With a transactable [Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offer](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/include-saas-offer.md), you can monetize your Teams app by selling subscription plans directly from your Teams store listing.

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

:::row:::
    :::column:::
     :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-free-trial.png" alt-text="Free trials":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Free trials**

You can offer a free trial version of your app to get more customers to try it. To entice customers to buy the full version, you can limit the features in the trial version (for example, only including limited number of responses for a week) or specify a time period for the trial.

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::
:::row:::
    :::column:::
        ![In-app purchases](~/assets/images/saas-offer/pricing-in-app-purchases.png)
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**In-app purchases**

Whether you charge a price for your app or offer it for free, you can use in-app purchases in your app to provide an ongoing revenue stream. Use in-app purchases to let customers upgrade from a free to a paid version of your app.

[Use in-app purchases](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/in-app-purchase-flow.md)

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::
:::row:::
    :::column:::
        :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/apps-in-meetings/test-preview-monetize-app-image.png" alt-text="Test preview SaaS offer":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Test preview for monetized app**

With a transactable Software as a Service (SaaS) offer, you can test the end-to-end purchase experience for your monetized apps in Teams before you publish.

[Test preview for monetized apps](Test-preview-for-monetized-apps.md)

    :::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

:::row:::
    :::column:::
        :::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/apps-in-meetings/test-preview-monetize-app-image.png" alt-text="Manage license for third party apps":::
    :::column-end:::
    :::column span="2":::

**Set up Microsoft license management**

If you choose to use Microsoft license management to manage a SaaS license purchased in Teams, you can easily assign, unassign, use, and track SaaS licenses from the Teams store.

[Set up Microsoft license management](manage-third-party-apps-license.md).

:::column-end:::
:::row-end:::

## Next step

* [Include a SaaS offer with your Microsoft Teams app](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/include-saas-offer.md)
* [Microsoft Teams store validation guidelines](teams-store-validation-guidelines.md)
