msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/submission-checklist.md, before:

---
title: Prepare your store submission  
description: Final steps before you submit your Microsoft Teams app to be listed on the store. Validate app package and complete publisher verification and attestation.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: high
author: heath-hamilton
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Prepare your Teams store submission

You've designed, built, and tested your Microsoft Teams app. Now you're ready to list it so people can discover and start using your app.

See the following video to learn more about publishing your app to the Microsoft Teams app store:
<br>

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4WG3l]
<br>

Before you submit your app to [Partner Center](/office/dev/store/use-partner-center-to-submit-to-appsource), ensure you've done the following.

## Validate your app package

While your app may be working in a test environment, you should check your app package to avoid running into issues during the submission process.

The Microsoft Teams app validation tool helps you identify and fix issues before submitting to Partner Center. The tool automatically checks your app's configurations against the same test cases used during store validation.

1. Go to the [Microsoft Teams app validation tool](https://dev.teams.microsoft.com/appvalidation.html).

   You can also validate your app using [Developer Portal for Teams.](~/concepts/build-and-test/teams-developer-portal.md)

1. Upload your app package to run the automated tests.
1. Go to the **Preliminary checklist** and review the test cases that are difficult to automate.
1. [Fix issues with your configurations](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) or app in general. These issues occur if the automated tests give you errors or you haven't met all the criteria in the checklist.

## Compile testing instructions

Depending on your app functionality, you're required to provide Teams tenant configurations, a set of test accounts, and test notes. Ensure that you meet all requirements listed in this section to avoid app testability failures and delay in the app publishing process.

1. **Tenant configurations**: You must configure a Teams tenant to test your app and provide test accounts. This section shares the details for configuring a tenant for your app's testing. For more information about creating a demo tenant, see [Prepare your Microsoft 365 tenant](../../../build-and-test/prepare-your-o365-tenant.md). Ensure your app is configured for this demo tenant. If applicable, safe-listing or connection to external services for this tenant should be done before submission of the app.

2. **Test Accounts**: Depending on your app's features, you need to provide the following accounts:

    - Admin account (required)
    - Non-admin accounts (required)

        - Ensure that test accounts are safe-listed or configured with license keys, if applicable.
        - If your app requires users to log in or connect to external services, provide the required credentials to complete the login or connection with the external service.
        - Ensure that phone-based 2-way authentication is disabled for test accounts.
        - If the app provides a collaborative experience, provide a non-admin account for each user persona. For example, if your app is used by teachers and students, provide credentials for both user personas.
        - Ensure that at least one account has access to premium or upgraded features, if applicable.
        - All accounts you provide must include pre-populated data to help in testing. For example, if your app helps to provide market insights based on the user profile, ensure that market data is pre-populated along with a few user profiles.
        - Provide at least one account that isn't pre-configured to test the first-run sign-in experience properly.

    > [!NOTE]
    > These accounts must be utilized only for validation requirements. The validation team will test your app fully, including first-run user experience.
    > If your app is free for all users and anyone who intends to use your app can sign up to use it, indicate the same in the test notes. The validation team will use the sign up process as described.

3. **Test Notes**: The notes provide details about your app's capabilities in Teams and the steps for testing each one. It helps the validation team to understand your app better and complete the testing for all functionalities in your app. If your app functionality includes event-based notifications, list the instructions to trigger these events. For time-based notifications, indicate the expected time for receiving these notifications.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The functional testing of the app is initiated based on the test notes you provide. However, the validation team won't restrict the testing only to the test instructions.

4. **Demo Video**: Provide a recording of your app so that Microsoft can fully understand its functionality.

You can find the following [sample test instructions](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/tree/19115f8bdd4be6a6c0c38a77651dd8d8c55c741b/msteams-platform/assets/sample-instructions) for your reference.

- Sample 1: Educational app
- Sample 2: ERP Data transfer
- Sample 3: Collaborative app

## Create your store listing details

The information that you submit to [Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com)&#8212;including your name, descriptions, icons, and images&#8212;becomes the Teams store and Microsoft AppSource listing for your app.

A store listing may be someone's first impression of your app. Increase installations with a listing that effectively conveys your app's benefits, functionality, and brand.

### Specify a short name

Your app's name (specifically, its *[short name](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#name)*) plays a crucial role in how users discover it in the store.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-short-name-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's short name displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your short name adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#app-name).

### Write descriptions

You must have a short and long description of your app.

#### Short description

A concise summary of your app that should be original, engaging, and directed at your target audience. Keep the short description to one sentence.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-short-description-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's short description displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your short description adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#short-description).

#### Long description

The long description can provide a narrative that highlights your apps:

* Main features
* The problems it solves
* Target audience

While this description can be as long as 4,000 characters, most users will only read between 300-500 words.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-long-description-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's long description displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your long description adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#long-description).

### Adhere to icon design guidelines

Icons are one of the main elements users see when browsing the store. Your icons should communicate your app's brand and purpose while also adhering to Teams requirements.

For more information, see [guidance on creating Teams app icons](~/concepts/build-and-test/apps-package.md#app-icons).

### Capture screenshots

Screenshots provide a prominent visual preview of your app to complement your app name, icon, and descriptions.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-of-capturing-screenshots-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where app screenshots display in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Remember the following best practices about screenshots:

* You can have up to five screenshots per listing.
* Supported file types include .png, .jpeg, and gif image formats.
* Dimensions should be 1366 x 768 pixels.
* Maximum size of 1,024 KB.

For best practices, see the following resources:

* [Teams Store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#screenshots)
* [Craft effective images for Microsoft app stores](/office/dev/store/craft-effective-appsource-store-images)

### Create a video

A video in your listing can be the most effective way to communicate why people should use your app. Address the following questions in a video:

* Who is your app for?
* What problems can your app solve?
* How does your app work?
* What other benefits do you get from using your app?

You can add a URL for your YouTube or Vimeo video.

#### Best practices for videos

* Keep your video between 60-90 seconds.
* Aim for quality. In a listing, users will see your video before screenshots.
* Communicate the value of the product in narrative form.
* Demonstrate how the product works.

### Select a category for your app

During submission, you're asked to categorize your app. You can categorize your app based on the following categories:

|Categories  |
|--------------|
| Microsoft |
| Education |
| Productivity |
| Images and video galleries |
| Project management |
| Utilities |
| Social |
| Communication |
| Content management |
| Files and documents |
| Workflow and business management |
| IT/Admin |
| Human resources and recruiting|
| Developer tools |
| Meetings and scheduling |
| Data visualization and BI |
| Training and tutorial |
| News and weather |
| Customer support |
| Reference |
| Sales and marketing |
| Look and feel |
| Customer and contact management (CRM) |
| Financial management |
| Maps and feeds |
| Other |

### Localize your store listing

Partner Center supports [localized store listings](/office/dev/store/prepare-localized-solutions). For more information, see [how to localize your Teams app listing](../../../../concepts/build-and-test/apps-localization.md).

## Complete Publisher Verification

[Publisher Verification](/azure/active-directory/develop/publisher-verification-overview) is required for Teams apps listed in the store. For more information, see [frequently asked questions](/azure/active-directory/develop/publisher-verification-overview#frequently-asked-questions), [how to mark your app as publisher verified](/azure/active-directory/develop/mark-app-as-publisher-verified), and [troubleshoot publisher verification](/azure/active-directory/develop/troubleshoot-publisher-verification).

## Complete Publisher Attestation

[Publisher Attestation](/microsoft-365-app-certification/docs/attestation) is also required for Teams apps listed in the Store. The process includes completing a self-assessment of your app's security, data handling, and compliance practices. The process can help potential customers make informed decisions about using your app.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're submitting a new app, you can't officially complete Publisher Attestation until your app is listed on the Teams store. If you're updating a listed app, complete Publisher Attestation before you submit the latest version of the app for validation.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Submit your app](/office/dev/store/add-in-submission-guide)

## See also

* [Publish your app to the Microsoft Teams store](../publish.md)
* [Prepare your Microsoft 365 tenant](../../../build-and-test/prepare-your-o365-tenant.md)
* [Resolve issues if your Microsoft Teams store submission fails](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/resolve-submission-issues.md)

Commit message:

Content update
Updated content on Teams store search experience app discoverability.

msteams-platform/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/submission-checklist.md, after:

---
title: Prepare your store submission  
description: Final steps before you submit your Microsoft Teams app to be listed on the store. Validate app package and complete publisher verification and attestation.
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: high
author: heath-hamilton
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Prepare your Teams store submission

You've designed, built, and tested your Microsoft Teams app. Now you're ready to list it so people can discover and start using your app.

See the following video to learn more about publishing your app to the Microsoft Teams app store:
<br>

> [!VIDEO https://www.microsoft.com/videoplayer/embed/RE4WG3l]
<br>

Before you submit your app to [Partner Center](/office/dev/store/use-partner-center-to-submit-to-appsource), ensure you've done the following.

## Validate your app package

While your app may be working in a test environment, you should check your app package to avoid running into issues during the submission process.

The Microsoft Teams app validation tool helps you identify and fix issues before submitting to Partner Center. The tool automatically checks your app's configurations against the same test cases used during store validation.

1. Go to the [Microsoft Teams app validation tool](https://dev.teams.microsoft.com/appvalidation.html).

   You can also validate your app using [Developer Portal for Teams.](~/concepts/build-and-test/teams-developer-portal.md)

1. Upload your app package to run the automated tests.
1. Go to the **Preliminary checklist** and review the test cases that are difficult to automate.
1. [Fix issues with your configurations](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md) or app in general. These issues occur if the automated tests give you errors or you haven't met all the criteria in the checklist.

## Compile testing instructions

Depending on your app functionality, you're required to provide Teams tenant configurations, a set of test accounts, and test notes. Ensure that you meet all requirements listed in this section to avoid app testability failures and delay in the app publishing process.

1. **Tenant configurations**: You must configure a Teams tenant to test your app and provide test accounts. This section shares the details for configuring a tenant for your app's testing. For more information about creating a demo tenant, see [Prepare your Microsoft 365 tenant](../../../build-and-test/prepare-your-o365-tenant.md). Ensure your app is configured for this demo tenant. If applicable, safe-listing or connection to external services for this tenant should be done before submission of the app.

2. **Test Accounts**: Depending on your app's features, you need to provide the following accounts:

    - Admin account (required)
    - Non-admin accounts (required)

        - Ensure that test accounts are safe-listed or configured with license keys, if applicable.
        - If your app requires users to log in or connect to external services, provide the required credentials to complete the login or connection with the external service.
        - Ensure that phone-based 2-way authentication is disabled for test accounts.
        - If the app provides a collaborative experience, provide a non-admin account for each user persona. For example, if your app is used by teachers and students, provide credentials for both user personas.
        - Ensure that at least one account has access to premium or upgraded features, if applicable.
        - All accounts you provide must include pre-populated data to help in testing. For example, if your app helps to provide market insights based on the user profile, ensure that market data is pre-populated along with a few user profiles.
        - Provide at least one account that isn't pre-configured to test the first-run sign-in experience properly.

    > [!NOTE]
    > These accounts must be utilized only for validation requirements. The validation team will test your app fully, including first-run user experience.
    > If your app is free for all users and anyone who intends to use your app can sign up to use it, indicate the same in the test notes. The validation team will use the sign up process as described.

3. **Test Notes**: The notes provide details about your app's capabilities in Teams and the steps for testing each one. It helps the validation team to understand your app better and complete the testing for all functionalities in your app. If your app functionality includes event-based notifications, list the instructions to trigger these events. For time-based notifications, indicate the expected time for receiving these notifications.

    > [!NOTE]
    > The functional testing of the app is initiated based on the test notes you provide. However, the validation team won't restrict the testing only to the test instructions.

4. **Demo Video**: Provide a recording of your app so that Microsoft can fully understand its functionality.

You can find the following [sample test instructions](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/tree/19115f8bdd4be6a6c0c38a77651dd8d8c55c741b/msteams-platform/assets/sample-instructions) for your reference.

- Sample 1: Educational app
- Sample 2: ERP Data transfer
- Sample 3: Collaborative app

## Create your store listing details

The information that you submit to [Partner Center](https://partner.microsoft.com)&#8212;including your name, descriptions, icons, and images&#8212;becomes the Teams store and Microsoft AppSource listing for your app.

A store listing may be someone's first impression of your app. Increase installations with a listing that effectively conveys your app's benefits, functionality, and brand.

### Specify a short name

Your app's name (specifically, its *[short name](~/resources/schema/manifest-schema.md#name)*) plays a crucial role in how users discover it in the store.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="../../../../assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-short-name-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's short name displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your short name adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#app-name).

### Write descriptions

You must have a short and long description of your app. App description helps improve app discoverability in the Teams store.

#### Short description

A concise summary of your app that should be original, engaging, and directed at your target audience. Keep the short description to one sentence.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-short-description-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's short description displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your short description adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#short-description).

#### Long description

The long description can provide a narrative that highlights your apps:

* Main features
* The problems it solves
* Target audience

While this description can be as long as 4,000 characters, most users will only read between 300-500 words.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-long-description-under-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where an app's long description displays in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Make sure your long description adheres to the [store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#long-description).

### Adhere to icon design guidelines

Icons are one of the main elements users see when browsing the store. Your icons should communicate your app's brand and purpose while also adhering to Teams requirements.

For more information, see [guidance on creating Teams app icons](~/concepts/build-and-test/apps-package.md#app-icons).

### Capture screenshots

Screenshots provide a prominent visual preview of your app to complement your app name, icon, and descriptions.

:::row:::

:::column span="3":::
:::image type="content" source="~/assets/images/store-detail-page/specifying-of-capturing-screenshots-submission.png" alt-text="Example screenshot highlights where app screenshots display in a store listing.":::
:::column-end:::
:::column span="1":::
:::column-end:::

:::row-end:::

Remember the following best practices about screenshots:

* You can have up to five screenshots per listing.
* Supported file types include .png, .jpeg, and gif image formats.
* Dimensions should be 1366 x 768 pixels.
* Maximum size of 1,024 KB.

For best practices, see the following resources:

* [Teams Store validation guidelines](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/prepare/teams-store-validation-guidelines.md#screenshots)
* [Craft effective images for Microsoft app stores](/office/dev/store/craft-effective-appsource-store-images)

### Create a video

A video in your listing can be the most effective way to communicate why people should use your app. Address the following questions in a video:

* Who is your app for?
* What problems can your app solve?
* How does your app work?
* What other benefits do you get from using your app?

You can add a URL for your YouTube or Vimeo video.

#### Best practices for videos

* Keep your video between 60-90 seconds.
* Aim for quality. In a listing, users will see your video before screenshots.
* Communicate the value of the product in narrative form.
* Demonstrate how the product works.

### Select a category for your app

During submission, you're asked to categorize your app. App category helps improve your app discoverability in the Teams store. You can categorize your app based on the following categories:

|Categories  |
|--------------|
| Microsoft |
| Education |
| Productivity |
| Images and video galleries |
| Project management |
| Utilities |
| Social |
| Communication |
| Content management |
| Files and documents |
| Workflow and business management |
| IT/Admin |
| Human resources and recruiting|
| Developer tools |
| Meetings and scheduling |
| Data visualization and BI |
| Training and tutorial |
| News and weather |
| Customer support |
| Reference |
| Sales and marketing |
| Look and feel |
| Customer and contact management (CRM) |
| Financial management |
| Maps and feeds |
| Other |

### Localize your store listing

Partner Center supports [localized store listings](/office/dev/store/prepare-localized-solutions). For more information, see [how to localize your Teams app listing](../../../../concepts/build-and-test/apps-localization.md).

## Complete Publisher Verification

[Publisher Verification](/azure/active-directory/develop/publisher-verification-overview) is required for Teams apps listed in the store. For more information, see [frequently asked questions](/azure/active-directory/develop/publisher-verification-overview#frequently-asked-questions), [how to mark your app as publisher verified](/azure/active-directory/develop/mark-app-as-publisher-verified), and [troubleshoot publisher verification](/azure/active-directory/develop/troubleshoot-publisher-verification).

## Complete Publisher Attestation

[Publisher Attestation](/microsoft-365-app-certification/docs/attestation) is also required for Teams apps listed in the Store. The process includes completing a self-assessment of your app's security, data handling, and compliance practices. The process can help potential customers make informed decisions about using your app.

> [!NOTE]
> If you're submitting a new app, you can't officially complete Publisher Attestation until your app is listed on the Teams store. If you're updating a listed app, complete Publisher Attestation before you submit the latest version of the app for validation.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Submit your app](/office/dev/store/add-in-submission-guide)

## See also

* [Publish your app to the Microsoft Teams store](../publish.md)
* [Prepare your Microsoft 365 tenant](../../../build-and-test/prepare-your-o365-tenant.md)
* [Resolve issues if your Microsoft Teams store submission fails](~/concepts/deploy-and-publish/appsource/resolve-submission-issues.md)
