msteams-platform/resources/bot-v3/bots-notifications.md, before:

---
title: Handle bot events
description: In this module, learn how to handle events in bots for Microsoft Teams, Teams member or bot addition, Team member or bot removed and more
ms.date: 04/02/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.author: lajanuar
author: surbhigupta
---
# Handle bot events in Microsoft Teams

[!include[v3-to-v4-SDK-pointer](~/includes/v3-to-v4-pointer-bots.md)]

Microsoft Teams sends notifications to your bot for changes or events that happen in scopes where your bot is active. You can use these events to trigger service logic, such as the following:

* Trigger a welcome message when your bot is added to a team.
* Query and cache group information when the bot is added to a group chat.
* Update cached information on team membership or channel information.
* Remove cached information for a team if the bot is removed.
* When a bot message is liked by a user.

Each bot event is sent as an `Activity` object in which `messageType` defines what information is in the object. For messages of type `message`, see [Sending and receiving messages](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conversations.md).

Teams and group events, triggered off the `conversationUpdate` type, have more Teams event information passed as part of the `channelData` object, and therefore your event handler must query the `channelData` payload for the Teams `eventType` and more event-specific metadata.

The following table lists the events that your bot can receive and take action on.

|Type|Payload object|Teams eventType |Description|Scope|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `conversationUpdate` |`membersAdded`| `teamMemberAdded`|[Member added to team](#team-member-or-bot-addition)| all |
| `conversationUpdate` |`membersRemoved`| `teamMemberRemoved`|[Member was removed from team](#team-member-or-bot-removed)| `groupChat` & `team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`teamRenamed`| [Team was renamed](#team-name-updates)| `team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelCreated`| [A channel was created](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelRenamed`| [A channel was renamed](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelDeleted`| [A channel was deleted](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `messageReaction` |`reactionsAdded`|| [Reaction to bot message](#reactions)| all |
| `messageReaction` |`reactionsRemoved`|| [Reaction removed from bot message](#reactions)| all |

## Team member or bot addition

The [`conversationUpdate`](/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-activities?view=azure-bot-service-3.0#conversationupdate&preserve-view=true) event is sent to your bot when it receives information on membership updates for teams where it has been added. It also receives an update when it has been added for the first time specifically for personal conversations. The user information (`Id`) is unique for your bot and can be cached for future use by your service, such as, sending a message to a specific user.

### Bot or user added to a team

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersAdded` object in the payload is sent when either a bot is added to a team or a new user is added to a team where a bot has been added. Teams also adds `eventType.teamMemberAdded` in the `channelData` object.

Because this event is sent in both cases, you should parse the `membersAdded` object to determine whether the addition was a user or the bot itself. For the latter, a best practice is to send a [welcome message](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conv-channel.md#best-practice-welcome-messages-in-teams) to the channel so users can understand the features your bot provides.

#### Example code: Checking whether bot was the added member

##### .NET

```csharp
    for (int i = 0; i < sourceMessage.MembersAdded.Count; i++)
    {
        if (sourceMessage.MembersAdded[i].Id == sourceMessage.Recipient.Id)
        {
            addedBot = true;
            break;
        }
    }
```

##### Node.js

```javascript
const builder = require('botbuilder');

var c = new builder.ChatConnector({appId: BOT_APP_ID, appPassword: .BOT_SECRET});
var bot = new builder.UniversalBot(c);

bot.on('conversationUpdate', (msg) => {
    var members = msg.membersAdded;
    // Loop through all members that were just added to the team
    for (var i = 0; i < members.length; i++) {

        // See if the member added was our bot
        if (members[i].id.includes(BOT_APP_ID)) {
            var botmessage = new builder.Message()
                .address(msg.address)
                .text('Hello World!');

            bot.send(botmessage, function(err) {});
        }
    }
});
```

#### Schema example: Bot added to team

```json
{
   "membersAdded":[
      {
         "id":"28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0"
      }
   ],
   "type":"conversationUpdate",
   "timestamp":"2017-02-23T19:38:35.312Z",
   "localTimestamp":"2017-02-23T12:38:35.312-07:00",
   "id":"f:5f85c2ad",
   "channelId":"msteams",
   "serviceUrl":"https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
   "from":{
      "id":"29:1I9Is_Sx0OIy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
   },
   "conversation":{
      "isGroup":true,
      "conversationType":"channel",
      "id":"19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
   },
   "recipient":{
      "id":"28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
      "name":"SongsuggesterBot"
   },
   "channelData":{
      "team":{
         "id":"19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
      },
      "eventType":"teamMemberAdded",
      "tenant":{
         "id":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
      }
   }
}
```

### User Added to a meeting

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersAdded` object in the payload is sent when a user is added to a private scheduled meeting. The event details will be sent even when anonymous users join the meeting.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* When an anonymous user is added to a meeting, membersAdded payload object does not have `aadObjectId` field.
>* When an anonymous user is added to a meeting, `from` object in the payload always have the id of the meeting organizer, even if the anonymous user was added by another presenter.

#### Schema example: User added to meeting

```json
{
   "membersAdded":[
      {
         "id":"229:1Z_XHWBMhDuehhDBYoPQD6Y1DSFsTtqOZx-SA5Jh9Y4zHKm4VbFGRn7-rK7SWiW1JECwxkMdrWpHoBut2sSyQPA"
      }
   ],
   "type":"conversationUpdate",
   "timestamp":"2017-02-23T19:38:35.312Z",
   "localTimestamp":"2020-09-29T21:11:38.6542339Z",
   "id":"f:a8cd1b51-9ddb-bd35-624b-7f7474165df8",
   "channelId":"msteams",
   "serviceUrl":"https://canary.botapi.skype.com/amer/",
   "from":{
      "id":"29:1siKxZhSoTapsXvI0gyf7Gywm_HM-4kEQW4BJnWuFYVIVu87xCNP99nidgQRCcwD3L3p_schiMShzx8IDRzf8mw",
      "aadObjectId":"f30ba569-abef-4e97-8762-35f85cbae706"
   },
   "conversation":{
      "isGroup":true,
      "tenantId":"e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe",
      "id":"19:meeting_MWJlNGViOTgtMGExYi00NDA3LWExODgtOTZhMWNlYjM4ZTRj@thread.v2"
   },
   "recipient":{
      "id":"28:3af3604a-d4fc-486b-911e-86fab41aa91c",
      "name":"EchoBot1_Rename"
   },
   "channelData":{
      "tenant":{
         "id":"e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe"
      },
      "source":null,
      "meeting":{
         "id":"MCMxOTptZWV0aW5nX01XSmxOR1ZpT1RndE1HRXhZaTAwTkRBM0xXRXhPRGd0T1RaaE1XTmxZak00WlRSakB0aHJlYWQudjIjMA=="
      }
   }
}

```

### Bot added for personal context only

Your bot receives a `conversationUpdate` with `membersAdded` when a user adds it directly for personal chat. In this case, the payload that your bot receives doesn't contain the `channelData.team` object. You should use this as a filter in case you want your bot to offer a different [welcome message](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conv-personal.md#best-practice-welcome-messages-in-personal-conversations) depending on scope.

> [!NOTE]
> For personal scoped bots, your bot will  receive the `conversationUpdate` event multiple times, even if the bot is removed and re-added. For development and testing you may find it useful to add a helper function that will allow you to reset your bot completely. See a [Node.js example](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-complete-node/blob/master/src/middleware/SimulateResetBotChat.ts) or [C# example](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-complete-csharp/blob/master/template-bot-master-csharp/src/controllers/MessagesController.cs#L238) for more details on implementing this.

#### Schema example: bot added to personal context

```json
{
  "membersAdded": [{
      "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0"
    },
    {
      "id": "29:<userID>",
      "aadObjectId": "***"
    }
  ],
  "type": "conversationUpdate",
  "timestamp": "2019-04-23T10:17:44.349Z",
  "id": "f:5f85c2ad",
  "channelId": "msteams",
  "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
  "from": {
    "id": "29:<USERID>",
    "aadObjectId": "***"
  },
  "conversation": {
    "conversationType": "personal",
    "id": "***"
  },
  "recipient": {
    "id": "28:<BOT ID>",
    "name": "<BOT NAME>"
  },
  "channelData": {
    "tenant": {
      "id": "<TENANT ID>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Team member or bot removed

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersRemoved` object in the payload is sent when either your bot is removed from a team, or a user is removed from a team where a bot has been added. Teams also adds `eventType.teamMemberRemoved` in the `channelData` object. As with the `membersAdded` object, you should parse the `membersRemoved` object for your bot's App ID to determine who was removed.

### Schema example: Team member removed

```json
{
    "membersRemoved": [
        {
            "id": "29:1_LCi5Up14pAy65yZuaJzG1uIT7ujYhjjSTsUNqjORsZHjLHKiQIBJa4cX2XsAsRoaY7va2w6ZymA9-1VtSY_g"
        }
    ],
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:37:06.96Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:37:06.96-07:00",
    "id": "f:d8a6a4aa",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0OIy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient":
    {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterBot"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "eventType": "teamMemberRemoved",
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

### User removed from a meeting

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersRemoved` object in the payload is sent when a user is removed from a private scheduled meeting. The event details will be sent even when anonymous users join the meeting.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* When an anonymous user is removed from a meeting, membersRemoved payload object does not have `aadObjectId` field.
>* When an anonymous user is removed from a meeting, `from` object in the payload always have the id of the meeting organizer, even if the anonymous user was removed by another presenter.

#### Schema example: User removed from meeting

```
{   
      "membersRemoved": 
        {  
          "id": "29:1Z_XHWBMhDuehhDBYoPQD6Y1DSFsTtqOZx-SA5Jh9Y4zHKm4VbFGRn7-rK7SWiW1JECwxkMdrWpHoBut2sSyQPA"   
        }   
      ],   
      "type": "conversationUpdate",   
      "timestamp": "2020-09-29T21:15:08.6391139Z",   
      "id": "f:ee8dfdf3-54ac-51de-05da-9d49514974bb",   
      "channelId": "msteams",   
      "serviceUrl": "https://canary.botapi.skype.com/amer/",   
      "from": {   
        "id": "29:1siKxZhSoTapsXvI0gyf7Gywm_HM-4kEQW4BJnWuFYVIVu87xCNP99nidgQRCcwD3L3p_schiMShzx8IDRzf8mw",   
        "aadObjectId": "f30ba569-abef-4e97-8762-35f85cbae706"   
      },   
      "conversation": {    
        "isGroup": true,   
        "tenantId": "e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe",   
        "id": "19:meeting_MWJlNGViOTgtMGExYi00NDA3LWExODgtOTZhMWNlYjM4ZTRj@thread.v2"   
      },   
      "recipient": {   
        "id": "28:3af3604a-d4fc-486b-911e-86fab41aa91c",   
        "name": "EchoBot1_Rename"   
      },   
      "channelData": {   
        "tenant": {   
          "id": "e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe"   
        },   
        "source": null,   
        "meeting": {   
          "id": "MCMxOTptZWV0aW5nX01XSmxOR1ZpT1RndE1HRXhZaTAwTkRBM0xXRXhPRGd0T1RaaE1XTmxZak00WlRSakB0aHJlYWQudjIjMA=="   
        }   
      }   
}
```

## Team name updates

> [!NOTE]
> There is no functionality to query all team names, and team name is not returned in payloads from other events.

Your bot is notified when the team it is in has been renamed. It receives a `conversationUpdate` event with `eventType.teamRenamed` in the `channelData` object. Note that there are no notifications for team creation or deletion, because bots exist only as part of teams and have no visibility outside the scope in which they've been added.

### Schema example: Team renamed

```json
{ 
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:35:56.825Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:35:56.825-07:00",
    "id": "f:1406033e",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/", 
    "from": { 
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
    }, 
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": { 
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype",
            "name": "New Team Name"
        },
        "eventType": "teamRenamed",
        "tenant": { 
           "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

## Channel updates

Your bot is notified when a channel is created, renamed, or deleted in a team where it has been added. Again, the `conversationUpdate` event is received, and a Teams-specific event identifier is sent as part of the `channelData.eventType` object, where the channel data's  `channel.id` is the GUID for the channel, and `channel.name` contains the channel name itself.

The channel events are as follows:

* **channelCreated**&emsp;A user adds a new channel to the team.
* **channelRenamed**&emsp;A user renames an existing channel.
* **channelDeleted**&emsp;A user removes a channel.

### Full schema example: channelCreated

```json
{
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:34:07.478Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:34:07.478-07:00",
    "id": "f:dd6ec311",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1wR7IdIRIoerMIWbewMi75JA3scaMuxvFon9eRQW2Nix5loMDo0362st2IaRVRirPZBv1WdXT8TIFWWmlQCizZQ"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterBot"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
            "name": "FunDiscussions"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "eventType": "channelCreated",
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

### Schema excerpt: channelData for channelRenamed

```json
⋮
"channelData": {
    "channel": {
        "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
        "name": "PhotographyUpdates"
    },
    "team": {
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "eventType": "channelRenamed",
    "tenant": {
        "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
    }
}
⋮
```

### Schema excerpt: channelData for channelDeleted

```json
⋮
"channelData": {
    "channel": {
        "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
        "name": "PhotographyUpdates"
    },
    "team": {
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "eventType": "channelDeleted",
    "tenant": {
        "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
    }
}
⋮
```

## Reactions

The `messageReaction` event is sent when a user adds or removes his or her reaction to a message, which was originally sent by your bot. `replyToId` contains the ID of the specific message.

### Schema example: A user likes a message

```json
{
    "reactionsAdded": [
        {
            "type": "like"
        }
    ],
    "type": "messageReaction",
    "timestamp": "2017-10-16T18:45:41.943Z",
    "id": "f:9f78d1f3",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA",
        "aadObjectId": "c33aafc4-646d-4543-9d4c-abd28e4d2110"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    },
    "replyToId": "1575667808184"
}
```

### Schema example: A user un-likes a message

```json
{
    "reactionsRemoved": [
        {
            "type": "like"
        }
    ],
    "type": "messageReaction",
    "timestamp": "2017-10-16T18:45:41.943Z",
    "id": "f:9f78d1f3",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA",
        "aadObjectId": "c33aafc4-646d-4543-9d4c-abd28e4d2110"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    },
    "replyToId": "1575667808184"
}
```

Commit message:

Metadata housekeeping (#8560)
* Add new ms.author value

* Update author la to Surbhi (global metadata)

* More of the same

* Replace m365apps ms.custom with ms.subservice

* Build warning

* URL updated.

react.fluentui.dev/?path=/docs/theme-colors--page

* Add author field

* Duplicate author key

* acro update

* acro updated

* minor edits

* minor edits

---------

Co-authored-by: v-habibaumme <91723607+v-habibaumme@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: v-bvishnu <129953098+v-bvishnu@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: v-sdhakshina <v-sdhakshina@microsoft.com>
Co-authored-by: v-ypalikila <93579821+v-ypalikila@users.noreply.github.com>

msteams-platform/resources/bot-v3/bots-notifications.md, after:

---
title: Handle bot events
description: In this module, learn how to handle events in bots for Microsoft Teams, Teams member or bot addition, Team member or bot removed and more.
ms.date: 04/02/2023
ms.topic: how-to
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---
# Handle bot events in Microsoft Teams

[!include[v3-to-v4-SDK-pointer](~/includes/v3-to-v4-pointer-bots.md)]

Microsoft Teams sends notifications to your bot for changes or events that happen in scopes where your bot is active. The following list provides events to trigger service logic:

* Trigger a welcome message when your bot is added to a team.
* Query and cache group information when the bot is added to a group chat.
* Update cached information on team membership or channel information.
* Remove cached information for a team if the bot is removed.
* When a bot message is liked by a user.

Each bot event is sent as an `Activity` object in which `messageType` defines what information is in the object. For messages of type `message`, see [Sending and receiving messages](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conversations.md).

Teams and group events, triggered off the `conversationUpdate` type, have more Teams event information passed as part of the `channelData` object, and therefore your event handler must query the `channelData` payload for the Teams `eventType` and more event-specific metadata.

The following table lists the events that your bot can receive and take action on.

|Type|Payload object|Teams eventType |Description|Scope|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `conversationUpdate` |`membersAdded`| `teamMemberAdded`|[Member added to team](#team-member-or-bot-addition)| all |
| `conversationUpdate` |`membersRemoved`| `teamMemberRemoved`|[Member was removed from team](#team-member-or-bot-removed)| `groupChat` & `team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`teamRenamed`| [Team was renamed](#team-name-updates)| `team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelCreated`| [A channel was created](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelRenamed`| [A channel was renamed](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `conversationUpdate` | |`channelDeleted`| [A channel was deleted](#channel-updates)|`team` |
| `messageReaction` |`reactionsAdded`|| [Reaction to bot message](#reactions)| all |
| `messageReaction` |`reactionsRemoved`|| [Reaction removed from bot message](#reactions)| all |

## Team member or bot addition

The [`conversationUpdate`](/azure/bot-service/dotnet/bot-builder-dotnet-activities?view=azure-bot-service-3.0#conversationupdate&preserve-view=true) event is sent to your bot when it receives information on membership updates for teams where it has been added. It also receives an update when it has been added for the first time specifically for personal conversations. The user information (`Id`) is unique for your bot and can be cached for future use by your service, such as, sending a message to a specific user.

### Bot or user added to a team

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersAdded` object in the payload is sent when either a bot is added to a team or a new user is added to a team where a bot has been added. Teams also adds `eventType.teamMemberAdded` in the `channelData` object.

Because this event is sent in both cases, you should parse the `membersAdded` object to determine whether the addition was a user or the bot itself. For the latter, a best practice is to send a [welcome message](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conv-channel.md#best-practice-welcome-messages-in-teams) to the channel so users can understand the features your bot provides.

#### Example code: Checking whether bot was the added member

##### .NET

```csharp
    for (int i = 0; i < sourceMessage.MembersAdded.Count; i++)
    {
        if (sourceMessage.MembersAdded[i].Id == sourceMessage.Recipient.Id)
        {
            addedBot = true;
            break;
        }
    }
```

##### Node.js

```javascript
const builder = require('botbuilder');

var c = new builder.ChatConnector({appId: BOT_APP_ID, appPassword: .BOT_SECRET});
var bot = new builder.UniversalBot(c);

bot.on('conversationUpdate', (msg) => {
    var members = msg.membersAdded;
    // Loop through all members that were just added to the team
    for (var i = 0; i < members.length; i++) {

        // See if the member added was our bot
        if (members[i].id.includes(BOT_APP_ID)) {
            var botmessage = new builder.Message()
                .address(msg.address)
                .text('Hello World!');

            bot.send(botmessage, function(err) {});
        }
    }
});
```

#### Schema example: Bot added to team

```json
{
   "membersAdded":[
      {
         "id":"28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0"
      }
   ],
   "type":"conversationUpdate",
   "timestamp":"2017-02-23T19:38:35.312Z",
   "localTimestamp":"2017-02-23T12:38:35.312-07:00",
   "id":"f:5f85c2ad",
   "channelId":"msteams",
   "serviceUrl":"https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
   "from":{
      "id":"29:1I9Is_Sx0OIy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
   },
   "conversation":{
      "isGroup":true,
      "conversationType":"channel",
      "id":"19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
   },
   "recipient":{
      "id":"28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
      "name":"SongsuggesterBot"
   },
   "channelData":{
      "team":{
         "id":"19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
      },
      "eventType":"teamMemberAdded",
      "tenant":{
         "id":"72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
      }
   }
}
```

### User Added to a meeting

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersAdded` object in the payload is sent when a user is added to a private scheduled meeting. The event details are sent even when anonymous users join the meeting.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* When an anonymous user is added to a meeting, membersAdded payload object does not have `aadObjectId` field.
>* When an anonymous user is added to a meeting, `from` object in the payload always have the id of the meeting organizer, even if the anonymous user was added by another presenter.

#### Schema example: User added to meeting

```json
{
   "membersAdded":[
      {
         "id":"229:1Z_XHWBMhDuehhDBYoPQD6Y1DSFsTtqOZx-SA5Jh9Y4zHKm4VbFGRn7-rK7SWiW1JECwxkMdrWpHoBut2sSyQPA"
      }
   ],
   "type":"conversationUpdate",
   "timestamp":"2017-02-23T19:38:35.312Z",
   "localTimestamp":"2020-09-29T21:11:38.6542339Z",
   "id":"f:a8cd1b51-9ddb-bd35-624b-7f7474165df8",
   "channelId":"msteams",
   "serviceUrl":"https://canary.botapi.skype.com/amer/",
   "from":{
      "id":"29:1siKxZhSoTapsXvI0gyf7Gywm_HM-4kEQW4BJnWuFYVIVu87xCNP99nidgQRCcwD3L3p_schiMShzx8IDRzf8mw",
      "aadObjectId":"f30ba569-abef-4e97-8762-35f85cbae706"
   },
   "conversation":{
      "isGroup":true,
      "tenantId":"e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe",
      "id":"19:meeting_MWJlNGViOTgtMGExYi00NDA3LWExODgtOTZhMWNlYjM4ZTRj@thread.v2"
   },
   "recipient":{
      "id":"28:3af3604a-d4fc-486b-911e-86fab41aa91c",
      "name":"EchoBot1_Rename"
   },
   "channelData":{
      "tenant":{
         "id":"e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe"
      },
      "source":null,
      "meeting":{
         "id":"MCMxOTptZWV0aW5nX01XSmxOR1ZpT1RndE1HRXhZaTAwTkRBM0xXRXhPRGd0T1RaaE1XTmxZak00WlRSakB0aHJlYWQudjIjMA=="
      }
   }
}

```

### Bot added for personal context only

Your bot receives a `conversationUpdate` with `membersAdded` when a user adds it directly for personal chat. In this case, the payload that your bot receives doesn't contain the `channelData.team` object. You should use this as a filter in case you want your bot to offer a different [welcome message](~/resources/bot-v3/bot-conversations/bots-conv-personal.md#best-practice-welcome-messages-in-personal-conversations) depending on scope.

> [!NOTE]
> For personal scoped bots, your bot will  receive the `conversationUpdate` event multiple times, even if the bot is removed and re-added. For development and testing you may find it useful to add a helper function that will allow you to reset your bot completely. For more information, see [Node.js example](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-complete-node/blob/master/src/middleware/SimulateResetBotChat.ts) or [C# example](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-sample-complete-csharp/blob/master/template-bot-master-csharp/src/controllers/MessagesController.cs#L238) for more details on implementing this.

#### Schema example: bot added to personal context

```json
{
  "membersAdded": [{
      "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0"
    },
    {
      "id": "29:<userID>",
      "aadObjectId": "***"
    }
  ],
  "type": "conversationUpdate",
  "timestamp": "2019-04-23T10:17:44.349Z",
  "id": "f:5f85c2ad",
  "channelId": "msteams",
  "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
  "from": {
    "id": "29:<USERID>",
    "aadObjectId": "***"
  },
  "conversation": {
    "conversationType": "personal",
    "id": "***"
  },
  "recipient": {
    "id": "28:<BOT ID>",
    "name": "<BOT NAME>"
  },
  "channelData": {
    "tenant": {
      "id": "<TENANT ID>"
    }
  }
}
```

## Team member or bot removed

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersRemoved` object in the payload is sent when either your bot is removed from a team, or a user is removed from a team where a bot has been added. Teams also adds `eventType.teamMemberRemoved` in the `channelData` object. As with the `membersAdded` object, you should parse the `membersRemoved` object for your bot's App ID to determine who was removed.

### Schema example: Team member removed

```json
{
    "membersRemoved": [
        {
            "id": "29:1_LCi5Up14pAy65yZuaJzG1uIT7ujYhjjSTsUNqjORsZHjLHKiQIBJa4cX2XsAsRoaY7va2w6ZymA9-1VtSY_g"
        }
    ],
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:37:06.96Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:37:06.96-07:00",
    "id": "f:d8a6a4aa",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0OIy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient":
    {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterBot"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "eventType": "teamMemberRemoved",
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

### User removed from a meeting

The `conversationUpdate` event with the `membersRemoved` object in the payload is sent when a user is removed from a private scheduled meeting. The event details are sent even when anonymous users join the meeting.

> [!NOTE]
>
>* When an anonymous user is removed from a meeting, membersRemoved payload object does not have `aadObjectId` field.
>* When an anonymous user is removed from a meeting, `from` object in the payload always have the id of the meeting organizer, even if the anonymous user was removed by another presenter.

#### Schema example: User removed from meeting

```
{   
      "membersRemoved": 
        {  
          "id": "29:1Z_XHWBMhDuehhDBYoPQD6Y1DSFsTtqOZx-SA5Jh9Y4zHKm4VbFGRn7-rK7SWiW1JECwxkMdrWpHoBut2sSyQPA"   
        }   
      ],   
      "type": "conversationUpdate",   
      "timestamp": "2020-09-29T21:15:08.6391139Z",   
      "id": "f:ee8dfdf3-54ac-51de-05da-9d49514974bb",   
      "channelId": "msteams",   
      "serviceUrl": "https://canary.botapi.skype.com/amer/",   
      "from": {   
        "id": "29:1siKxZhSoTapsXvI0gyf7Gywm_HM-4kEQW4BJnWuFYVIVu87xCNP99nidgQRCcwD3L3p_schiMShzx8IDRzf8mw",   
        "aadObjectId": "f30ba569-abef-4e97-8762-35f85cbae706"   
      },   
      "conversation": {    
        "isGroup": true,   
        "tenantId": "e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe",   
        "id": "19:meeting_MWJlNGViOTgtMGExYi00NDA3LWExODgtOTZhMWNlYjM4ZTRj@thread.v2"   
      },   
      "recipient": {   
        "id": "28:3af3604a-d4fc-486b-911e-86fab41aa91c",   
        "name": "EchoBot1_Rename"   
      },   
      "channelData": {   
        "tenant": {   
          "id": "e15762ef-a8d8-416b-871c-25516354f1fe"   
        },   
        "source": null,   
        "meeting": {   
          "id": "MCMxOTptZWV0aW5nX01XSmxOR1ZpT1RndE1HRXhZaTAwTkRBM0xXRXhPRGd0T1RaaE1XTmxZak00WlRSakB0aHJlYWQudjIjMA=="   
        }   
      }   
}
```

## Team name updates

> [!NOTE]
> There is no functionality to query all team names, and team name is not returned in payloads from other events.

Your bot is notified when the team it is in has been renamed. It receives a `conversationUpdate` event with `eventType.teamRenamed` in the `channelData` object. There are no notifications for team creation or deletion, because bots exist only as part of teams and have no visibility outside the scope in which they've been added.

### Schema example: Team renamed

```json
{ 
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:35:56.825Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:35:56.825-07:00",
    "id": "f:1406033e",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/", 
    "from": { 
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA"
    }, 
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": { 
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype",
            "name": "New Team Name"
        },
        "eventType": "teamRenamed",
        "tenant": { 
           "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

## Channel updates

Your bot is notified when a channel is created, renamed, or deleted in a team where it has been added. Again, the `conversationUpdate` event is received, and a Teams-specific event identifier is sent as part of the `channelData.eventType` object, where the channel data's  `channel.id` is the GUID for the channel, and `channel.name` contains the channel name itself.

The channel events are as follows:

* **channelCreated**&emsp;A user adds a new channel to the team.
* **channelRenamed**&emsp;A user renames an existing channel.
* **channelDeleted**&emsp;A user removes a channel.

### Full schema example: channelCreated

```json
{
    "type": "conversationUpdate",
    "timestamp": "2017-02-23T19:34:07.478Z",
    "localTimestamp": "2017-02-23T12:34:07.478-07:00",
    "id": "f:dd6ec311",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1wR7IdIRIoerMIWbewMi75JA3scaMuxvFon9eRQW2Nix5loMDo0362st2IaRVRirPZBv1WdXT8TIFWWmlQCizZQ"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterBot"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
            "name": "FunDiscussions"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "eventType": "channelCreated",
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    }
}
```

### Schema excerpt: channelData for channelRenamed

```json
⋮
"channelData": {
    "channel": {
        "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
        "name": "PhotographyUpdates"
    },
    "team": {
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "eventType": "channelRenamed",
    "tenant": {
        "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
    }
}
⋮
```

### Schema excerpt: channelData for channelDeleted

```json
⋮
"channelData": {
    "channel": {
        "id": "19:6d97d816470f481dbcda38244b98689a@thread.skype",
        "name": "PhotographyUpdates"
    },
    "team": {
        "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
    },
    "eventType": "channelDeleted",
    "tenant": {
        "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
    }
}
⋮
```

## Reactions

The `messageReaction` event is sent when a user adds or removes their reaction to a message, which was originally sent by your bot. `replyToId` contains the ID of the specific message.

### Schema example: A user likes a message

```json
{
    "reactionsAdded": [
        {
            "type": "like"
        }
    ],
    "type": "messageReaction",
    "timestamp": "2017-10-16T18:45:41.943Z",
    "id": "f:9f78d1f3",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA",
        "aadObjectId": "c33aafc4-646d-4543-9d4c-abd28e4d2110"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    },
    "replyToId": "1575667808184"
}
```

### Schema example: A user unlikes a message

```json
{
    "reactionsRemoved": [
        {
            "type": "like"
        }
    ],
    "type": "messageReaction",
    "timestamp": "2017-10-16T18:45:41.943Z",
    "id": "f:9f78d1f3",
    "channelId": "msteams",
    "serviceUrl": "https://smba.trafficmanager.net/amer-client-ss.msg/",
    "from": {
        "id": "29:1I9Is_Sx0O-Iy2rQ7Xz1lcaPKlO9eqmBRTBuW6XzkFtcjqxTjPaCMij8BVMdBcL9L_RwWNJyAHFQb0TRzXgyQvA",
        "aadObjectId": "c33aafc4-646d-4543-9d4c-abd28e4d2110"
    },
    "conversation": {
        "isGroup": true,
        "conversationType": "channel",
        "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
    },
    "recipient": {
        "id": "28:f5d48856-5b42-41a0-8c3a-c5f944b679b0",
        "name": "SongsuggesterLocal"
    },
    "channelData": {
        "channel": {
            "id": "19:3629591d4b774aa08cb0887902eee7c1@thread.skype"
        },
        "team": {
            "id": "19:efa9296d959346209fea44151c742e73@thread.skype"
        },
        "tenant": {
            "id": "72f988bf-86f1-41af-91ab-2d7cd011db47"
        }
    },
    "replyToId": "1575667808184"
}
```
