msteams-platform/feedback.md, before:

---
title: Microsoft Teams developer support and feedback
description: The Microsoft Teams product team responds to the developer community across several feedback and support channels.
keywords: teams feedback developer questions issues contact support request bugs contributions 
---

# Microsoft Teams developer support and feedback

The Microsoft Teams product team responds to the developer community across several feedback and support channels.
Platform Support and feedback channels => Microsoft Teams Developer Community channels.


|            <strong>Support type</strong>            |               <strong>Contact</strong>                                                                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|         <strong>Community support</strong>          | 1. Questions can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/microsoft-teams) using the `microsoft-teams` tag. Please note that Stack Overflow has guidelines such as requiring a descriptive title, a complete and concise problem statement, and sufficient details to reproduce your issue. Feature requests or overly broad questions are off-topic; new users should visit the [Stack Overflow Help Center](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask) for more details.<br/><br/> 2. Questions can also be posted at [Microsoft Q&A](/answers/topics/office-teams-app-dev.html) using the `office-teams-app-dev` tag. We love Stack Overflow. We will continue supporting our customers who ask questions there. However, Stack Overflow has specific criteria about what questions are appropriate for the community and [Microsoft Q&A](/answers/topics/office-teams-app-dev.html) will have a more open policy regarding this.                                                            |
|        <strong>Tab SDK issues/suggestions</strong>        |  Submit issues and feature requests to the SDK repo for [Microsoft Teams JavaScript Library](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-library-js). How-to questions about the SDK can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/microsoft-teams) using the `microsoft-teams` tag.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|            <strong>Bot & Messaging Extension SDK issues/suggestions</strong>             |       Submit issues and feature requests to the SDK repo for your bot's language ([C#](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-dotnet/), [Javascript](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-js), or [Python](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-python)). How-to questions about the SDK can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/botframewor%20microsoft-teams) using the `botframework & microsoft-teams` tag.                                                                                            |
| <strong>Samples</strong> |             Submit issues with samples to respective [Microsoft Teams Samples](/microsoftteams/platform/tutorials/code-samples) repo.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| <strong>Features suggestions</strong>             |      Please make your features suggestions on the [Microsoft Teams feedback portal on UserVoice](https://microsoftteams.uservoice.com/forums/555103-public-preview/category/182881-developer-platform).                                                                                                                                                            |
|        <strong>Documentation issues</strong>        |                                                                                                                                                                      Click on `Submit feedback on This page` option available at bottom of respective documentation to open an [issue](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/issues) on the Microsoft Teams documentation GitHub repo.                                                                                                                                                                      |
|       <strong>Documentation updates</strong>        | Click the Edit link on an article and submit a pull request to the [Microsoft Teams documentation GitHub](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs) repo.                                                                                                                                                                      |
|          <strong>General questions</strong>           |          General questions about the Microsoft Teams developer platform, please send an email to [Microsoft Teams Community Help](mailto:microsoftteamsdev@microsoft.com). We encourage posting questions on channels mentioned above and use email only if none of the above are applicable.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Commit message:

Rephrased a sentence
Rephrased a sentence (refer line 20) - Click `This page` option in the <strong>Submit and view feedback for</strong> section available at bottom of respective documentation to open an [issue](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/issues) on the Microsoft Teams documentation GitHub repo.

msteams-platform/feedback.md, after:

---
title: Microsoft Teams developer support and feedback
description: The Microsoft Teams product team responds to the developer community across several feedback and support channels.
keywords: teams feedback developer questions issues contact support request bugs contributions 
---

# Microsoft Teams developer support and feedback

The Microsoft Teams product team responds to the developer community across several feedback and support channels.
Platform Support and feedback channels => Microsoft Teams Developer Community channels.


|            <strong>Support type</strong>            |               <strong>Contact</strong>                                                                                  |
|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|         <strong>Community support</strong>          | 1. Questions can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/microsoft-teams) using the `microsoft-teams` tag. Please note that Stack Overflow has guidelines such as requiring a descriptive title, a complete and concise problem statement, and sufficient details to reproduce your issue. Feature requests or overly broad questions are off-topic; new users should visit the [Stack Overflow Help Center](https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask) for more details.<br/><br/> 2. Questions can also be posted at [Microsoft Q&A](/answers/topics/office-teams-app-dev.html) using the `office-teams-app-dev` tag. We love Stack Overflow. We will continue supporting our customers who ask questions there. However, Stack Overflow has specific criteria about what questions are appropriate for the community and [Microsoft Q&A](/answers/topics/office-teams-app-dev.html) will have a more open policy regarding this.                                                            |
|        <strong>Tab SDK issues/suggestions</strong>        |  Submit issues and feature requests to the SDK repo for [Microsoft Teams JavaScript Library](https://github.com/OfficeDev/microsoft-teams-library-js). How-to questions about the SDK can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/microsoft-teams) using the `microsoft-teams` tag.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|            <strong>Bot & Messaging Extension SDK issues/suggestions</strong>             |       Submit issues and feature requests to the SDK repo for your bot's language ([C#](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-dotnet/), [Javascript](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-js), or [Python](https://github.com/Microsoft/botbuilder-python)). How-to questions about the SDK can be posted at [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/botframewor%20microsoft-teams) using the `botframework & microsoft-teams` tag.                                                                                            |
| <strong>Samples</strong> |             Submit issues with samples to respective [Microsoft Teams Samples](/microsoftteams/platform/tutorials/code-samples) repo.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| <strong>Features suggestions</strong>             |      Please make your features suggestions on the [Microsoft Teams feedback portal on UserVoice](https://microsoftteams.uservoice.com/forums/555103-public-preview/category/182881-developer-platform).                                                                                                                                                            |
|        <strong>Documentation issues</strong>        |                                                                                                                                                                      Click `This page` option in the <strong>Submit and view feedback for</strong> section available at bottom of respective documentation to open an [issue](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs/issues) on the Microsoft Teams documentation GitHub repo.                                                                                                                                                                      |
|       <strong>Documentation updates</strong>        | Click the Edit link on an article and submit a pull request to the [Microsoft Teams documentation GitHub](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs) repo.                                                                                                                                                                      |
|          <strong>General questions</strong>           |          General questions about the Microsoft Teams developer platform, please send an email to [Microsoft Teams Community Help](mailto:microsoftteamsdev@microsoft.com). We encourage posting questions on channels mentioned above and use email only if none of the above are applicable.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
