msteams-platform/toolkit/install-Teams-Toolkit.md, before:

---
title: Install Teams Toolkit 
author: zyxiaoyuer
description: Learn about installation of Teams Toolkit of different versions in Visual Studio Code and marketplace.
ms.author: zhany
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 07/29/2022
---
# Install Teams Toolkit

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> We've introduced the Teams Toolkit v5 extension within Visual Studio Code. This version comes to you with many new app development features. We recommend that you use Teams Toolkit v5 for building your Teams app.
>
> [Teams Toolkit v4](toolkit-v4/teams-toolkit-fundamentals-v4.md) extension will soon be deprecated.

This section helps you to know about the prerequisites, install Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, and install a different version of Teams Toolkit.

## Prerequisites

Before installing Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, you need to [download and install Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).

## Install Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code

You can install Teams Toolkit using **Extensions** in Visual Studio Code, or install it from the Visual Studio Code Marketplace.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/vscode)

1. Launch Visual Studio Code.
1. Select **View** > **Extensions** or **Ctrl+Shift+X**. You can also open extensions by selecting the extensions :::image type="icon" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/vsc-ext-icon.png" border="false"::: icon from the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/install toolkit-1_2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Extensions option under View.":::

    The EXTENSIONS: MARKETPLACE pane appears.

1. Enter **Teams Toolkit** in the search box.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/teams-toolkit-search.PNG" alt-text="Screenshot show the Teams Toolkit listed in the search result.":::

   Teams Toolkit appears in the search result.

1. Select **Teams Toolkit**, and then from the Teams Toolkit extension page that appears in the right pane, select  **Install**.
  
    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/teams-toolkit-ga.PNG" alt-text="Screenshot show the Teams Toolkit.":::

   After successful installation of Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code, the Teams Toolkit icon appears in the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/after-install_2.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit icon in the activity bar.":::

# [Marketplace](#tab/marketplace)

1. Go to [Visual Studio Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=TeamsDevApp.ms-teams-vscode-extension) in a web browser.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/install-ttk-marketplace_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit Marketplace screen.":::

1. Select **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/Install-ttk_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Install option.":::

1. In the pop-up window, select **Open**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/select-open_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows a pop-up window to open Visual Studio Code.":::

   Visual Studio Code opens with the Teams Toolkit extension page.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/ttk-in-vsc_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows how to select Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/ttk-in-vsc_2.png":::

1. Select **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/select-install-ttk_2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the selection of Install option in Teams Toolkit.":::

   After successful installation of Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code, the Teams Toolkit icon appears in the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/after-install_2.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit icon in the activity bar after installation.":::

---

## Install a different release version

By default, Visual Studio Code automatically keeps Teams Toolkit up-to-date. If you want to install a different release version, follow these steps:

1. Select **Extensions** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/extension icon.png" border="false"::: from the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

1. Enter **Teams Toolkit** in the search box.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/TeamsToolkit-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit search and the result.":::

1. Select **Teams Toolkit**.

1. On the Teams Toolkit page, select the dropdown next to **Uninstall**.

1. Select **Install Another Version...** from the dropdown list.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/InstallAnotherVersion.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the option to select other version of Visual Studio Code.":::

1. Select the required version to install.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/Olderversions of VS Code.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows versions other than the latest version of Visual Studio Code.":::

   Teams Toolkit installs the version you’ve selected.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Explore Teams Toolkit](explore-Teams-Toolkit.md)

Commit message:

Added install a pre-release version

msteams-platform/toolkit/install-Teams-Toolkit.md, after:

---
title: Install Teams Toolkit 
author: zyxiaoyuer
description: Learn about installation of Teams Toolkit of different versions in Visual Studio Code and marketplace.
ms.author: zhany
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.topic: overview
ms.date: 07/29/2022
---
# Install Teams Toolkit

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> We've introduced the Teams Toolkit v5 extension within Visual Studio Code. This version comes to you with many new app development features. We recommend that you use Teams Toolkit v5 for building your Teams app.
>
> [Teams Toolkit v4](toolkit-v4/teams-toolkit-fundamentals-v4.md) extension will soon be deprecated.

This section helps you to know about the prerequisites, install Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, and install a different version of Teams Toolkit.

## Prerequisites

Before installing Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code, you need to [download and install Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/Download).

## Install Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code

You can install Teams Toolkit using **Extensions** in Visual Studio Code, or install it from the Visual Studio Code Marketplace.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/vscode)

1. Launch Visual Studio Code.
1. Select **View** > **Extensions** or **Ctrl+Shift+X**. You can also open extensions by selecting the extensions :::image type="icon" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/vsc-ext-icon.png" border="false"::: icon from the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/install toolkit-1_2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Extensions option under View.":::

    The EXTENSIONS: MARKETPLACE pane appears.

1. Enter **Teams Toolkit** in the search box.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/teams-toolkit-search.PNG" alt-text="Screenshot show the Teams Toolkit listed in the search result.":::

   Teams Toolkit appears in the search result.

1. Select **Teams Toolkit**, and then from the Teams Toolkit extension page that appears in the right pane, select  **Install**.
  
    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/teams-toolkit-ga.PNG" alt-text="Screenshot show the Teams Toolkit.":::

   After successful installation of Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code, the Teams Toolkit icon appears in the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/after-install_2.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit icon in the activity bar.":::

# [Marketplace](#tab/marketplace)

1. Go to [Visual Studio Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=TeamsDevApp.ms-teams-vscode-extension) in a web browser.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/install-ttk-marketplace_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit Marketplace screen.":::

1. Select **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/Install-ttk_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Install option.":::

1. In the pop-up window, select **Open**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/select-open_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows a pop-up window to open Visual Studio Code.":::

   Visual Studio Code opens with the Teams Toolkit extension page.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/ttk-in-vsc_1.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows how to select Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code." lightbox="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/ttk-in-vsc_2.png":::

1. Select **Install**.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/select-install-ttk_2.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the selection of Install option in Teams Toolkit.":::

   After successful installation of Teams Toolkit in Visual Studio Code, the Teams Toolkit icon appears in the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/after-install_2.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit icon in the activity bar after installation.":::

---

## Install a different release version

By default, Visual Studio Code automatically keeps Teams Toolkit up-to-date. If you want to install a different release version, follow these steps:

1. Select **Extensions** :::image type="icon" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/extension icon.png" border="false"::: from the Visual Studio Code activity bar.

1. Enter **Teams Toolkit** in the search box.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/TeamsToolkit-search.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the Teams Toolkit search and the result.":::

1. Select **Teams Toolkit**.

1. On the Teams Toolkit page, select the dropdown next to **Uninstall**.

1. Select **Install Another Version...** from the dropdown list.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/InstallAnotherVersion.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the option to select other version of Visual Studio Code.":::

1. Select the required version to install.

   :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-toolkit-v2/teams toolkit fundamentals/Olderversions of VS Code.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows versions other than the latest version of Visual Studio Code.":::

   Teams Toolkit installs the version you’ve selected.

## Install a pre-release version

The Teams Toolkit for Visual Studio Code extension is available in a pre-release version. To install a Teams Toolkit pre-release version, follow these steps:

1. Open **Visual Studio Code**.
1. Select **Extensions** :::image type="icon" source="images/extension icon-v4.png" border="false"::: from the Visual Studio Code activity bar.
1. Enter **Teams Toolkit** in the search box.
1. On the Teams Toolkit page, select the dropdown arrow next to **Install**.
1. Select **Install Pre-Release Version**.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Explore Teams Toolkit](explore-Teams-Toolkit.md)
