msteams-platform/includes/bots/teams-bot-samples.md, before:

---
title: Teams bot samples
description: With this learning module, learn about Teams samples for Bot Framework, which includes working samples demonstrating the functionality.
localization_priority: Normal
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: surbhigupta12
---

## Teams bot samples

## Code sample

For complete working samples demonstrating the functionality, see the following Teams samples for Bot Framework:

| **Sample name** | **Description** | **.NET** | **Node.js** | **Python** | **Manifest**|
|--------|------------- |---|---|---|---|
| Teams conversation bot | This sample shows how to use different bot conversation events available in bot framework v4 for personal and teams scope. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/csharp)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/nodejs)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-conversation.zip) |
| Authentication with OAuthPrompt| This sample shows authentication and basic messaging in Bot Framework v4. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/csharp)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation-sso-quickstart/js)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-teams-authentication.zip) |
|Teams file upload | This sample shows how to use files with a bot in a one-to-one conversation. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-file-upload.zip) |
| Dialog | This sample shows how to use a dialog and values from cards in it for a message extension. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-task-module.zip) |
| Start new thread in a channel | This sample shows how to use a new thread in a channel using bot. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel.zip) |
| Teams app localization | This sample shows how to use Teams app localization using bot and tab. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/csharp) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/nodejs) | NA |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/csharp/demo-manifest/app-localization.zip)

Commit message:

Include mention of "task module" to ease terminology transition

msteams-platform/includes/bots/teams-bot-samples.md, after:

---
title: Teams bot samples
description: With this learning module, learn about Teams samples for Bot Framework, which includes working samples demonstrating the functionality.
localization_priority: Normal
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: surbhigupta12
---

## Teams bot samples

## Code sample

For complete working samples demonstrating the functionality, see the following Teams samples for Bot Framework:

| **Sample name** | **Description** | **.NET** | **Node.js** | **Python** | **Manifest**|
|--------|------------- |---|---|---|---|
| Teams conversation bot | This sample shows how to use different bot conversation events available in bot framework v4 for personal and teams scope. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/csharp)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/nodejs)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-conversation.zip) |
| Authentication with OAuthPrompt| This sample shows authentication and basic messaging in Bot Framework v4. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/csharp)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-conversation-sso-quickstart/js)| [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-teams-authentication/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-teams-authentication.zip) |
|Teams file upload | This sample shows how to use files with a bot in a one-to-one conversation. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-file-upload/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-file-upload.zip) |
| Teams Task Module | This sample shows how to use a dialog (task module) and values from cards in it for a message extension. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-task-module/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-task-module.zip) |
| Start new thread in a channel | This sample shows how to use a new thread in a channel using bot. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/csharp) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/nodejs) | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/python) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel/csharp/demo-manifest/bot-initiate-thread-in-channel.zip) |
| Teams app localization | This sample shows how to use Teams app localization using bot and tab. | [View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/csharp) |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/nodejs) | NA |[View](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/app-localization/csharp/demo-manifest/app-localization.zip)
