msteams-platform/get-started/get-started-overview.md, before:

---
title: Get started - Overview
description: Get started. Build your first Microsoft Teams app based on language (Node.js, C#, Java, and Python) and developement environment, understand app capabilities, SDKs.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: reference
---
# Get started

Let's get started for building apps for Microsoft Teams and beyond!

Walk through the steps to build a basic, real-world Teams app. The Get started also introduces you to common tools, fundamental concepts, and more advanced features.

Here's an idea of what you'll learn:

* Get up and running quickly with the Microsoft Teams Toolkit (a Visual Studio Code extension).
* Learn to build scenario-based apps, such as a notification bot.
* Get experience with the Toolkit and SDKs.
* Configure and build different types of Teams apps.
* Learn about extending your Teams app across Microsoft 365.

## App capabilities and development tools

:::image type="content" border="false" source="../assets/images/get-started/get-started.png" alt-text="Illustration showing your choices to build Teams app":::

Depending on the capabilities you want for your app, choose an appropriate development tool set.

| App capabilities | Tabs | Bots | Message extensions |
|--------|-------------|--------|--------|
| **User interactions** | A full-screen embedded web experience. | A chat bot that converses with members. | Shortcuts for inserting external content into a conversation or taking action on messages. |
| **Recommended tools** | Microsoft Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI if you prefer using CLI | Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI | Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI |
| **SDKs** | TeamsFx SDK for core libs and Teams JavaScript client library for UI functionalities | TeamsFx SDK and Bot Framework SDK | TeamsFx SDK and Bot Framework SDK |
| **Technology stacks or Languages** | Web technology in general, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (incl. React). | Node.js, C#, Java, and Python. | Node.js, C#, Java, and Python. |
| **Extend for Microsoft 365** | | | |

*You aren't limited to using these particular stacks!*

If you are already familiar with Yeoman workflow, you may prefer using [YoTeams Yeoman Generator](https://github.com/pnp/generator-teams/blob/master/docs/docs/tutorials/build-your-first-microsoft-teams-app.md) to build your apps.

## See also

* [Microsoft Teams samples](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples#microsoft-teams-samples)
* [Git and GitHub resources](/contribute/additional-resources)

Commit message:

Edit images and content placement. Add some notes for docs team

msteams-platform/get-started/get-started-overview.md, after:

---
title: Get started - Overview
description: Get started. Build your first Microsoft Teams app based on language (Node.js, C#, Java, and Python) and developement environment, understand app capabilities, SDKs.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: reference
---
# Get started

Let's get started for building apps for Microsoft Teams and beyond!

Walk through the steps to build a basic, real-world Teams app. The Get started also introduces you to common tools, fundamental concepts, and more advanced features.

Here's an idea of what you'll learn:

* Get up and running quickly with the Microsoft Teams Toolkit (a Visual Studio Code extension).
* Learn to build scenario-based apps, such as a notification bot.
* Get experience with the Toolkit and SDKs.
* Configure and build different types of Teams apps.
* Learn about extending your Teams app across Microsoft 365.

## Choose your path to learn

(Note: please edit the content!)

In this section, you will learn these three major app capabilities-- tabs, bot, and message extension. And each tutorial, you have two ways to learn. One way is a quickstart using a GitHub Codespaces instance, and another way takes longer but you learn step by step.

:::image type="content" border="false" source="../assets/images/get-started/codescpaces-vs-manual.png" alt-text="Illustration showing your choices to build Teams app - Codespaces bundles all you need and it only takes several minutes to rey, while getting started manually will take time but you learn step-by-step":::

## App capabilities and development tools

(Note: Move some content to Overview > Tools and SDKs (title TBD))


Depending on the capabilities you want for your app, choose an appropriate development tool set.

| App capabilities | Tabs | Bots | Message extensions |
|--------|-------------|--------|--------|
| **User interactions** | A full-screen embedded web experience. | A chat bot that converses with members. | Shortcuts for inserting external content into a conversation or taking action on messages. |
| **Recommended tools** | Microsoft Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI if you prefer using CLI | Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI | Visual Studio Code with Teams Toolkit extension, or TeamsFx CLI |
| **SDKs** | TeamsFx SDK for core libs and Teams JavaScript client library for UI functionalities | TeamsFx SDK and Bot Framework SDK | TeamsFx SDK and Bot Framework SDK |
| **Technology stacks or Languages** | Web technology in general, HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (incl. React). | Node.js, C#, Java, and Python. | Node.js, C#, Java, and Python. |
| **Extend for Microsoft 365** | | | |

*You aren't limited to using these particular stacks!*

If you are already familiar with Yeoman workflow, you may prefer using [YoTeams Yeoman Generator](https://github.com/pnp/generator-teams/blob/master/docs/docs/tutorials/build-your-first-microsoft-teams-app.md) to build your apps.

## See also

* [Microsoft Teams samples](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples#microsoft-teams-samples)
* [Git and GitHub resources](/contribute/additional-resources)
