msteams-platform/get-started/know-your-teams-app.md, before:

---
title: Build your Teams app
description: Build your first Team app
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: reference
---
# Build your Teams app

Here’s how you proceed:

Select the section based on the type of Teams app you want to build:

If you’re new to building a Teams app, see [build a basic Teams app](#build-a-basic-teams-app)

If you’ve created Teams app, and want to build apps to suit a particular scenario, see [Scenario-based apps](#build-a-scenario-based-teams-app).

If you want to extend your Teams app across M365, see [Extend Teams app across M365](#extend-your-teams-app-across-microsoft-365).

## Build a basic Teams app

You can get started with building a Teams app with a basic tab app, bot app, or a message extension app. The process to create the Teams app is similar for any basic app.

You can start by building a [basic tab app](../sbs-gs-javascript.yml)
For building other basic Teams app, see link to: Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials> Basic apps.

You can start by building a scenario-based app

For building other basic Teams app, see link to: Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials > Scenario-based apps>.

### Build a scenario-based Teams app

You can build a Teams app that is suitable for a particular scenario or use-case. For example, a notification bot is suitable to send notifications but not to chat.

You can build Teams app to suit your business needs as shown in the following scenarios:

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/get-started/info-graphic-build-a-scenario-based-app.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the developer persona and user stories.":::

You can start by building a [scenario-based app](../sbs-gs-notificationbot.yml)
For building other basic Teams app, see Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials Scenario-based apps.

### Extend your Teams app across Microsoft 365

* Content for extending the app.
* Introduce unified app manifest.
* To do list – code sample, no sbs yet.

Extend your Teams app across Microsoft 365 by updating the Teams unified app manifest. Configure the properties in the Teams app manifest to make your app accessible over Outlook and Office.

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/get-started/unified-app-manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the configuration of properties in the Teams app manifest.":::

Commit message:

Edit get started and swap some images

msteams-platform/get-started/know-your-teams-app.md, after:

---
title: Build your Teams app
description: Build your first Team app
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: reference
---
# Build your Teams app

Here’s how you proceed:

Select the section based on the type of Teams app you want to build:

If you’re new to building a Teams app, see [build a basic Teams app](#build-a-basic-teams-app)

If you’ve created Teams app, and want to build apps to suit a particular scenario, see [Scenario-based apps](#build-a-scenario-based-teams-app).

If you want to extend your Teams app across M365, see [Extend Teams app across M365](#extend-your-teams-app-across-microsoft-365).

## Build a basic Teams app

You can get started with building a Teams app with a basic tab app, bot app, or a message extension app. The process to create the Teams app is similar for any basic app.

You can start by building a [basic tab app](../sbs-gs-javascript.yml)
For building other basic Teams app, see link to: Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials> Basic apps.

You can start by building a scenario-based app

For building other basic Teams app, see link to: Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials > Scenario-based apps>.

### Build a scenario-based Teams app

You can build a Teams app that is suitable for a particular scenario or use-case. For example, a notification bot is suitable to send notifications but not to chat.

You can start by building a [scenario-based app](../sbs-gs-notificationbot.yml)
For building other basic Teams app, see Tools and SDKs > TTk v5 > TTk Tutorials Scenario-based apps.

### Extend your Teams app across Microsoft 365

If you previously have built some Teams apps, now you can extend your apps across Microsoft 365 by updating the app manifest. Configure the properties in the Teams app manifest to make your app accessible over Outlook and Microsoft 365.

:::image type="content" border="false" source="../assets/images/overview/app-manifest.png" alt-text="Screenshot showing the configuration of properties in the Teams app manifest.":::

If you would like to extend existing apps, learn how at [Extend Teams apps across Microsoft 365](../m365-apps/overview.md) section.
