---
title: Teams Mobile Apps Best Practices
author: surbhigupta
ms.author: surbhigupta
description: Learn how to optimize your tab app performance on Teams mobile with best practices such as using service workers and performance audits.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 03/27/2025
---

# Best practices for Teams mobile apps

 Mobile devices have limited processing power, network connectivity, and battery compared to desktops and laptops. If you want to increase the adoption of your Teams tab app on mobile devices, you must ensure a fast and responsive web experience on the Teams Android and iOS clients. This article outlines the best practices to optimize your Teams tab's webpages for the Teams mobile client.

## Use service workers to cache static assets

* Cache static assets such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and images to reduce network dependency.
* Use the stale-while-revalidate strategy to serve cached content quickly while fetching updated data in the background. You can also use this strategy to cache API responses that don't change frequently, such as configuration data.
* Avoid caching large assets to prevent unnecessary storage consumption on mobile devices.

### Sample app

Check out this [sample app](https://github.com/OfficeDev/Microsoft-Teams-Samples/tree/main/samples/tab-support-offline/nodejs) that makes use of a service worker to cache data and provide offline functionality.

## Minimize webpage size

In areas with weak signal strength, mobile data network can be slow and unstable, resulting in high latency. Hence, reducing the overall app package size and optimizing data transfers is critical. To reduce the page size, gather key performance metrics by running a performance audit using the **Performance** tab in dev tools. The performance audit helps identify bottlenecks and areas for improvement in your app.

### Performance audit

To run a performance audit, follow these steps:

1. [Enable dev tools](../tabs/how-to/developer-tools.md#access-devtools-from-teams-android-client).

1. Open dev tools and select **inspect** under your app. A new window opens.

1. Select the **Performance** tab. You can see a performance marker indicating the time it takes for your app from Teams JavaScript SDK initialization to the `notifySuccess` call. You can use this marker to examine the network or local operations performed between `init()` and `notifySuccess`.

    In the following example, the **Timings** section shows that the app takes 2.20 seconds from Teams JavaScript SDK initialization to `notifySuccess`, makes two calls to get an authorization token, and makes a third API call that takes 1.5 seconds.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/dev-tools-performance.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the performance tab in dev tools." lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/dev-tools-performance-full.png":::

1. Select the **Lighthouse** tab. This tab provides insights into the app size and performance metrics.

    1. Under **Device**, ensure that you select **Mobile**.

    1. Select **Analyze page load**.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/dev-tools-lighthouse.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the lighthouse tab under dev tools." lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/dev-tools-lighthouse.png":::

        The report shows various diagnostics for your app's webpage and a set of actionable insights to decrease page load. Ensure that you take the required steps to reduce the latencies flagged in this report.

1. Select the **Coverage** tab. Your webpage might contain unused resources that don't provide any value to the functionality of the app. This tab allows you to see actual size and usage percentage of the resources on the webpage.

    1. If you can't find it in the home page of dev tools, go to **More tools** > **Coverage**.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/enable-coverage-tools.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows how to enable coverage tools in dev tools." lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/enable-coverage-tools.png":::

    1. You can use the report to remove unused code or resources.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/coverage-tool-report.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the report generated by the coverage tool." lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/coverage-tool-report.png":::

## Calculate performance metrics for apps

Identifying existing apps with low performance to drive them to adapt best practices is crucial for improving app performance. The new **Self-Serve Lightweight Audit Tool** allows developers to analyze and optimize app performance on mobile platforms for Android and iOS.

> [!NOTE]
>
> * There are no prerequisites to use the self-serve lightweight audit tool.
> * For accurate latency calculation, ensure that your app calls the `notifySuccess()` API after it's fully loaded.

### Generate the performance metrics report

To generate the performance metrics for an app, follow these steps:

1. On your Teams client, go to **Settings** > **About** > **Developer Preview** and toggle the switch to enable **Developer Preview**.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/self-serve-lightweight-developer-preview-toggle.jpg" alt-text="screenshot shows the Developer Preview toggle in Teams settings" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/self-serve-lightweight-developer-preview-toggle.jpg":::

1. Navigate to **Apps** section.

1. Select the app you want to audit. The app home page opens.

1. To trigger report generation
    * On an Android app landing page:

         1. Select the kebab (:::image type="icon" source="../assets/icons/kebab-icon.jpg" border="false" lightbox="../assets/icons/kebab-icon.jpg":::) menu on the top right corner.

         1. Select **Audit app performance**. A popup appears.

          1. Select **Generate Performance Report**.

         :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/android-entry-point.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the entry point for Android audit tool" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/android-entry-point.jpg":::

    * On an iOS app landing page, select the audit app performance icon that appears next to the bot icon.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/entry-point-for-iOS.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows entry point for iOS audit tool" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/entry-point-for-iOS.png":::

An interim page appears while the report is being generated.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/calculating-metrics.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the metrics calculation in progress page" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/calculating-metrics.jpg":::

If the report is generated successfully, a bottom sheet appears with the embedded html report.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/html-report-chiclet.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the embedded HTML report in a chiclet" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/html-report-chiclet.png":::

> [!NOTE]
>
> * There's no restriction on the number of times that a report can be generated for an app.
> * The generated report is a static HTML page whose contents remain unchanged throughout the journey. A new report is generated only when you repeat the report generation process.
> * Refreshing or navigating away interrupts the process.
> * If the report isn't generated, a **Performance metrics could not be calculated. Please refresh or try again.** message appears.

### Access the report

The report provides simple, integrated real-time insights using browser and OS-level APIs, along with Teams-specific performance markers. If the report generation is successful, you can access it from the bottom sheet, which appears with the following options:

* **Open Report**: Opens the report in a new browser window.
* **Share Report**: Opens the device’s options for sharing outside Teams.
* **Forward in Teams**: Opens the device’s share menu for sharing in Teams.
* **Download**: Downloads the report in the device’s local storage.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/performance-report-success-bottom-sheet.png" alt-text="report-success-bottom-sheet" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/performance-report-success-bottom-sheet.png":::

### Analyze app performance report

The report contains these sections:

* **Latency**: This metric measures the (approximate) time taken by your app to load, to target a P95 app load latency of less than 5 seconds.

  * **For apps that call notifySuccess()**: This section contains an overall latency number at the top, followed by a sequential timeline indicating end time for each API call on app load.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/notify-success-called.jpg" alt-text="Screenshot shows the notification for apps calling notifySuccess()" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/notify-success-called.jpg":::

* **For apps that don’t call notifySuccess()**: Latency can’t be calculated. Hence, there will be either a dash or question mark in place of the overall latency number. An error message appears, notifying users of the issue and nudging them to use NotifySuccess() API call.

        :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/notify-success-API-not-called.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the error message for apps not calling notifySuccess()" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/notify-success-API-not-called.png":::

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Latency is not calculated if notifySuccess() API isn't called from code.

* **Caching (Service Worker)**: This section indicates whether a [service worker](#use-service-workers-to-cache-static-assets) (SW) is enabled as a local caching mechanism. Values are ‘Available’ (in green) and ‘Not Available’ (in red).

  * If report is generated from Android (and viewed anywhere) and SW is Not Available, it displays link to public Teams documentation.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-caching.png" alt-text="screenshot shows caching status for Android" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-caching.png":::

* If report is generated from iOS, actual SW implementation can’t be captured accurately. Hence, an error message appears.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Using [service worker](#use-service-workers-to-cache-static-assets) optimizes app performance.
> Service worker is applicable only for reports generated from Android.

* **App Package**: Indicates the total size occupied by the bundle of JS files. Ideal value is 1 MB. To optimize your app, click on **Check bundle files**.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-app-package.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows ideal app package size with link to relevant documentation" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-app-package.png":::

This opens a detailed list of files affecting bundle size. Use [service worker](#use-service-workers-to-cache-static-assets) and other [best practices](teams-mobile-best-practices.md) to reduce bundle size.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/files-affecting-bundle-size.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows the L2 screen for files affecting app bundle size" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/files-affecting-bundle-size.png":::

* **Content Paint Metrics**: Is a tabulated list of all relevant content paint metrics (and their values). This data will help you to identify and improve perceived performance by reducing delays in visual content rendering.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-content-paint-metrics.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows content paint metrics" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-content-paint-metrics.png":::

* **Disk Size**: Indicates the size of the app stored on the mobile device. The ideal limit is 20 MB. If an app is larger, size is displayed in red else in green.  
In case the disk size can’t be calculated, an error message with the reason shows up in place of expected value.

    :::image type="content" source="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-disk-size.png" alt-text="Screenshot shows disk size of app on your device" lightbox="../assets/images/tabs/lightweight-audit-tool/app-audit-report-disk-size.png":::

Using the metrics, you'll be able to identify performance bottlenecks and optimize your app for better performance on Teams mobile clients. All the sections in the report contain [relevant documentation links](teams-mobile-best-practices.md) to help you optimize your app.

## See also

* [Build tabs for Teams](../tabs/what-are-tabs.md)
* [Create a tab](../tabs/how-to/create-personal-tab.md)
